Vulnerable Data-Aware Adversarial Training
Yuqi Feng, Jiahao Fan, Yanan Sun∗
College of Computer Science, Sichuan University
feng770623@gmail.com, fanjh@scn.edu.cn, ysun@scn.edu.cn
Abstract
Fast adversarial training (FAT) has been considered as one of the most effective
alternatives to the computationally-intensive adversarial training. Generally, FAT
methods pay equal attention to each sample of the target task. However, the
distance between each sample and the decision boundary is different, learning sam-
ples which are far from the decision boundary (i.e., less important to adversarial
robustness) brings additional training cost and leads to sub-optimal results. To
tackle this issue, we present vulnerable data-aware adversarial training (VDAT) in
this study. Specifically, we first propose a margin-based vulnerability calculation
method to measure the vulnerability of data samples. Moreover, we propose a
vulnerability-aware data filtering method to reduce the training data for adversarial
training thus improve the training efficiency. The experiments are conducted in
terms of adversarial training and robust neural architecture search on CIFAR-10,
CIFAR-100, and ImageNet-1K. The results demonstrate that VDAT is up to 76%
more efficient than state-of-the-art FAT methods, while achieving improvements
regarding the natural accuracy and adversarial accuracy in both scenarios. Further-
more, the visualizations and ablation studies show the effectiveness of both core
components designed in VDAT.
1 Introduction
Adversarial training has been demonstrated as one of the most effective techniques [35, 40] to enhance
the adversarial robustness of deep neural networks. However, standard adversarial training methods
are shown to be time-consuming due to the multi-step gradient calculation and backward propagation
for generating the adversarial examples [35, 56]. Regarding this problem, fast adversarial training
(FAT) methods [44, 48] are proposed to reduce the computational budget of standard adversarial
training. Currently, most of the FAT methods mainly focus on generating adversarial examples
more efficiently [39]. In particular, FAT methods often replace the multi-step adversarial example
generation with the single-step one, thus improve the efficiency of adversarial training on the
whole dataset. However, recent studies demonstrate that some data samples are not important to
adversarial robustness, and learning these samples increases the training time but contributes little to
the performance [20, 47]. As a result, the efficiency and efficacy of FAT methods is limited.
In order to reduce the scale of training data and further improve FAT methods, some studies have
proposed FAT methods based on data filtering [13, 3, 47]. These methods mainly adopt the batch-
wise filtering manner to select subsets of the training data. For example, some methods evaluate the
contribution of a batch of data based on the related adversarial and natural losses [3], the gradient
approximation error of subsets of data [13], or the filling degree of the corresponding input spaces
segments [47]. However, these methods do not take the vulnerability of each samples in one batch
into account, limiting the performance of adversarial training. Specifically, the distance between
different data samples and the decision boundary is different according to previous studies [57, 50].
∗Corresponding author.
39th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2025).