Class I Class IIClass III✔Natural DataAdv Example✔✔Batch-wise Sampling……SelectedRemovedVDATNon-Vulnerable
Vulnerable……
Figure 1: The core idea of VDAT and state-of-the-art FAT methods
based on data filtering.
Natural PGD50 Cost
Evaluation Metrics
0
20
40
60
80Accuracy (%)
0
40
80
120
160
Training Cost (GPU Hours)
PGD-AT
Free-AT
FGSM-PGI
FGSM-SDI
FGSM-PDK
VDAT
Figure 2: The performance
on ImageNet-1K.
Consequently, the vulnerability of data samples is different under the adversarial attack with the same
strength. An example is shown in the left part of Figure 1, where the gray, green, and blue samples are
less vulnerable than the yellow, red, and purple ones. Because the random allocation of batches, each
batch is likely to contain both vulnerable and non-vulnerable samples as shown in the upper right of
Figure 1. Suppose the first batch is considered to be less representative than the second batch by the
method, and then only the second batch will be learned because of the batch-wise filtering manner.
As a result, the vulnerable samples in the first batch are not learned, while the non-vulnerable ones in
the second batch are learned, thus hindering the overall performance and efficiency.
In this study, we introduce vulnerable data-aware adversarial training (VDAT) to tackle the above
issue of existing FAT methods based on data filtering. As shown in the lower right part of Figure 1,
the main idea of VDAT is to perform the sample-wise vulnerability evaluation, and then detect the
vulnerable samples and learn them in a targeted way. This goal is achieved by two core components
designed. First, we propose a margin-based vulnerability calculation method, so as to determine
the vulnerability of each sample in the given dataset. The vulnerability is directly measured by the
decision margin between the natural data and adversarial examples, thus the computational cost is low.
Second, we propose a vulnerability-aware data filtering strategy, to reduce the number of samples for
adversarial training while learn vulnerable samples more robustly. In this strategy, each data sample
is given a certain probability to be changed to adversarial example, and the probability is calculated
according to the vulnerability of this data sample. The more vulnerable data samples will have larger
probability to be changed into adversarial examples. As a result, the vulnerable samples are learned
robustly in the training process, thus the overall performance is improved while maintaining low
training cost as shown in Figure 2. The contributions of this work are summarized as follows:
• We bring a new perspective to FAT. Different from the mainstream perspective focusing
on the batch-wise data filtering, we mainly focus on the sample-wise data filtering to
adversarially learn the vulnerable data samples.
• We propose VDAT with the margin-based vulnerability calculation and the vulnerability-
aware data filtering, to improve the performance of FAT and lower the computational
cost.
• We show that VDAT achieves the state-of-the-art performance regarding both natural and
adversarial accuracy on CIFAR-10, CIFAR-100, and ImageNet-1K, while bringing up to
76% efficiency improvement. In addition, VDAT is also effective in improving performance
and efficiency in the scenario of robust neural architecture search (NAS).
2 Related Work
2.1 Fast Adversarial Training (FAT)
FAT is a kind of method designed to accelerate the time-consuming training process of the standard
adversarial training [44]. In general, most FAT methods mainly focus on the efficient generation
of adversarial examples [1, 25]. For example, Jia et al. [28] propose a input data-aware adversarial
example initialization method, to generate adversarial examples which are beneficial to both natural
accuracy and adversarial robustness in a single-step manner. Tong et al. [45] propose the taxonomy
driven FAT method to overcome the catastrophic overfitting [30] via optimizing learning objective,
loss function, and initialization manner jointly. Jia et al. [27] propose prior knowledge-guided
2