• It is OK to report 1-sigma error bars, but one should state it. The authors should
preferably report a 2-sigma error bar than state that they have a 96% CI, if the hypothesis
of Normality of errors is not verified.
• For asymmetric distributions, the authors should be careful not to show in tables or
figures symmetric error bars that would yield results that are out of range (e.g. negative
error rates).
• If error bars are reported in tables or plots, The authors should explain in the text how
they were calculated and reference the corresponding figures or tables in the text.
8. Experiments compute resources
Question: For each experiment, does the paper provide sufficient information on the com-
puter resources (type of compute workers, memory, time of execution) needed to reproduce
the experiments?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: The computer resources are reported.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
• The paper should indicate the type of compute workers CPU or GPU, internal cluster,
or cloud provider, including relevant memory and storage.
• The paper should provide the amount of compute required for each of the individual
experimental runs as well as estimate the total compute.
• The paper should disclose whether the full research project required more compute
than the experiments reported in the paper (e.g., preliminary or failed experiments that
didn’t make it into the paper).
9. Code of ethics
Question: Does the research conducted in the paper conform, in every respect, with the
NeurIPS Code of Ethics https://neurips.cc/public/EthicsGuidelines?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: The research strictly follows the NeurIPS Code of Ethics.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the authors have not reviewed the NeurIPS Code of Ethics.
• If the authors answer No, they should explain the special circumstances that require a
deviation from the Code of Ethics.
• The authors should make sure to preserve anonymity (e.g., if there is a special consid-
eration due to laws or regulations in their jurisdiction).
10. Broader impacts
Question: Does the paper discuss both potential positive societal impacts and negative
societal impacts of the work performed?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: This work provides novel perspectives for fast adversarial training.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that there is no societal impact of the work performed.
• If the authors answer NA or No, they should explain why their work has no societal
impact or why the paper does not address societal impact.
• Examples of negative societal impacts include potential malicious or unintended uses
(e.g., disinformation, generating fake profiles, surveillance), fairness considerations
(e.g., deployment of technologies that could make decisions that unfairly impact specific
groups), privacy considerations, and security considerations.
• The conference expects that many papers will be foundational research and not tied
to particular applications, let alone deployments. However, if there is a direct path to
any negative applications, the authors should point it out. For example, it is legitimate
to point out that an improvement in the quality of generative models could be used to
26