Natural Data…… Vulnerability CalculationData Filtering𝑥ଵ𝑥ଵᇱ𝑥ଶ𝑥ଶᇱ𝑥௡ᇱ𝑥௡
Adversarial Perturbation
VulnerabilityCalculation
0.24 0.55 0. 43……Vulnerability of Samples
Data Filtering
NatTrainAdvVDAT𝑥ଵ𝑥ଵᇱ𝑥ଶ𝑥ଶᇱ𝑥௡ᇱ𝑥௡
∆𝑀ଵ∆𝑀ଶ∆𝑀௡……Soft Margin Transformation
𝑉ఏ(𝑥ଵ) 𝑉ఏ(𝑥ଶ) 𝑉ఏ(𝑥௡)……Hard MarginsVulnerability of Samples
…𝑉ఏ(𝑥ଵ)ProbabilityCalculation𝑃ఏ(𝑥) ≤ Rand(0,1)𝑃ఏ(𝑥) > Rand(0,1)
Natural Training SamplesAdversarial Training Samples𝑉ఏ(𝑥ଶ)𝑉ఏ(𝑥௡)
…𝑃ఏ(𝑥ଵ)𝑃ఏ(𝑥ଶ)𝑃ఏ(𝑥௡)
Figure 3: The illustration about the overall framework of VDAT. After adding adversarial perturbations
to generate adversarial examples, the margin-based vulnerability calculation and the vulnerability-
aware data filtering are performed sequentially.
4.1 Margin-based Vulnerability Calculation
After generating adversarial examples X ′ in the first step of VDAT, the margin-based vulnerability
calculation will play the role in calculating the vulnerability of each sample in X . Specifically, the
vulnerability Vθ(xi) of xi is represented by the difference between the logit margins of both natural
sample xi ∈ X and the corresponding adversarial example x′
i ∈ X ′, as shown in Equation (2):
Vθ(xi) = − | M y
θ(xi) − My
θ(x′
i) | (2)
where y denotes the true label of the data sample xi. Besides, the physical significance of the
subtraction is the margin difference in the decision space between xi and x′
i. The larger absolute
value of that subtraction denotes the larger margin difference, indicating the natural data is harder to
be attacked and has lower vulnerability.
However, both My
θ(xi) and My
θ(x′
i) are hard margins formulated by the maximum operator. In
this way, the logit margin is calculated only based on logits of the class y and the class with the
largest logit given by the model fθ. Unfortunately, there existing targeted adversarial attacks [35],
and the adversarial example xi can be misclassified into each possible class based on such kind of
attacks. Therefore, formulating the logit margin with only one class y′ ̸= y cannot well cover all
possible situations. To this end, we formulate the soft margin S y
θ (xi, τ) and S y
θ (x′
i, τ) for both xi
and x′
i motivated by [50]. The detailed formulation is shown in Equations (3) and (4), where τ is a
pre-determined hyperparameter.
S y
θ (xi) = ϕy
θ(xi) − 1
τ log
X
y′̸=y
exp(τ ϕy′
θ (xi)) (3)
S y
θ (x′
i) = ϕy
θ(x′
i) − 1
τ log
X
y′̸=y
exp(τ ϕy′
θ (x′
i)) (4)
Based on the soft margins, the vulnerability of the data sample xi can be rewritten as Equation (5).
Vθ(xi) = − | S y
θ (xi) − S y
θ (x′
i) | (5)
In the following, we discuss the motivation of adopting the margin difference instead of the pure
margin of the single data sample. The reason is that the pure margin only reflects the output situation
of the model and cannot represent the information of decision boundary [50]. In contrast, adopting
the margin difference can avoid the above problem, this is because the pure margin of adversarial
examples carries the decision boundary information [29]. Specifically, the decision boundary [33]
is characterized based on a certain data sample ˆx, the true label ˆy of ˆx, and another label y′ ̸= ˆy. If
this data sample satisfies ϕˆy
θ(ˆx) = ϕy′
θ (ˆx), then we assume that the data sample ˆx is on the decision
boundary between classes ˆy and y′. In practice, the problem is that the sample ˆx often cannot be
accurately found [50]. Fortunately, previous studies [9] state that the adversarial attack can push the
sample towards the decision boundary, thus the logit margin of adversarial examples can well reflect
the decision boundary information in some cases. Based on this, we adopt the margin difference to
calculate the vulnerability in this study.
4