adversarial example initialization method, to improve the quality of adversarial examples generated
and overcome the catastrophic overfitting. Although these methods have achieved decent performance,
they still need to train on the whole dataset with samples contributing little to the adversarial
robustness [47], thus limiting the efficiency. Therefore, we mainly focus on the perspective about
data filtering in this study, to further improve the efficiency of FAT.
2.2 Decision Boundary Analysis
The studies regarding decision boundary analysis mainly lie in three perspectives, i.e., enhancing the
adversarial training, improving the adversarial attacks, and interpreting the decision mechanism of
deep neural networks. In the first category, existing methods mainly focus on dynamically adjusting
the decision boundary during the training [ 11, 42, 50, 4], to improve both natural accuracy and
adversarial robustness of the model. In the second category, existing studies leverage the decision
boundary information to enhance both white-box and black-box attacks based on learning [9, 43], to
evaluate the adversarial robustness more accurately. In the third category, the mainstream direction is
to explore the relationship between the data, features, and the decision boundary during the adversarial
training [16, 37]. Then, the information about the features and decision boundary can be adopted to
interpret the shift of decision boundary of the neural network during adversarial training. Different
from these studies, we focus on data filtering from the decision boundary perspective in this work.
Specifically, we estimate the vulnerability of data samples to determine vulnerable ones based on
decision boundary analysis, to improve both efficiency and efficacy of FAT.
2.3 Robust Neural Architecture Search (NAS)
Robust NAS aims to automatically design robust neural architectures against adversarial at-
tacks [24, 14, 18]. Generally, most robust NAS methods are constructed based on differentiable NAS
methods [34, 5, 51], which need to optimize the trainable weights and architectures parameters in
a supernet. To ensure the adversarial robustness of the derived architectures, robust NAS methods
often adopt adversarial training techniques in the optimization of above variables. For instance,
Mok et al. [36] adopt adversarial training to obtain the input-loss landscape, and then update the
architecture parameters based on this indicator. Qian et al. [41] adopt adversarial training to update
trainable weights and architecture parameters, to reduce the non-robust feature distortion and enhance
the adversarial robustness of derived architectures. Ou et al. [38] propose a multi-objective search
strategy to balance the losses of natural training and adversarial training. In our experiments, we
replace the adversarial training in robust NAS with VDAT and other state-of-the-art FAT methods, to
evaluate the scalability of VDAT in terms of searching for adversarially robust neural architectures.
3 Preliminaries
According to the common practice of adversarial training [27], we define the target neural network
parameterized by θ as fθ: Rd → R. Given a data sample x ∈ X and the corresponding label
y ∈ {1, 2, . . . , k}, the network can be further denoted as fθ(x) = arg max c∈{1,2,...,k} ϕc
θ(x), where
ϕc
θ(x) denotes the logit for class c. Based on this, the decision margin My
θ(x) of the data sample x
can be denoted as Equation (1) according to the previous study [50].
My
θ(x) = ϕy
θ(x) − max
y′̸=y
ϕy′
θ (x) (1)
The main goal of the proposed VDAT method is to detect the vulnerable data samples, i.e., data sam-
ples having relatively smaller decision margin between themselves and the corresponding adversarial
examples. Then, the data samples detected are collected to construct a subset of data for adversarial
training, thus reducing the computational budget and improving the overall performance.
4 Vulnerable Data-Aware Adversarial Training
The overall framework of VDAT is shown in Figure 3. As can be seen, the proposed VDAT method
works on the natural data samples, through adversarial perturbation, and two core components, i.e.,
the margin-based vulnerability calculation and the vulnerability-aware data filtering, then the data
samples for natural training and adversarial training are determined and adopted to train the neural
network. The details of both core components are presented in the following sections.
3