4.2 Vulnerability-Aware Data Filtering
Based on the vulnerabilityV = {Vθ(x1), Vθ(x2), . . . ,Vθ(xn)} calculated for the natural data samples
{x1, x2, . . . , xn}, the data samples are filtered for natural training and adversarial training accordingly.
Specifically, each sample xi is given a probability Pθ(xi) to be changed to the adversarial example
for adversarial training. The higher the vulnerability of xi is, the larger the probability Pθ(xi) is, in
order to help the model learn this vulnerable sample more robustly. The details of the calculation of
Pθ(xi) are presented as follows.
To build the connection between the vulnerability and the probability Pθ(xi), we normalized the
vulnerability Vθ(xi), for the convenience of determining the probability. In particular, the calculation
for the probability Pθ(xi) is formulated as Equation (6):
Pθ(xi) = 1
2
 Vθ(xi) − V θ(x1, x2, . . . , xn)
max{| V θ(xi) − Vθ(xk) |}k=1,2,...,n
+ 1

(6)
where V θ(x1, x2, . . . , xn) denotes the average value of the vulnerability in V. The range of Pθ(xi)
is narrowed from zero to one by calculating in this way.
After determining the probability for each data sample, the data filtering can be performed accordingly.
Specifically, the filtering process is described by Equation (7):
F (xi) =
xi + δ, R(0, 1) ≤ P θ(xi)
xi, R(0, 1) > Pθ(xi) (7)
where δ denotes the adversarial noise generated by the specific adversarial attack of adversarial
training, R(0, 1) denotes a uniform random value ranged from zero to one. In this way, the data
samples with the higher vulnerability are more likely changed to adversarial examples, to help the
target model learn them more robustly.
When the filtered data F (xi) is determined for all data samples in X = {x1, x2, . . . , xn}, the
datasets for natural training and adversarial training can be obtained. Supposing there are m data
samples filtered for adversarial training, we denote the datasets for natural and adversarial training as
Xadv = {x1, x2, . . . , xm} and Xnat = {xm+1, xm+2, . . . , xn}, then the overall training loss Ltrain is
formulated as Equation (8).
Ltrain = Lnat(Xnat, θ) + Ladv(Xadv, θ) (8)
Algorithm 1 VDAT
Input: Target dataset X , target model with param-
eter θ, training epoch N , and interval T .
Output: The trained model with parameter θ∗.
1: for i = 0 to N do
2: if i mod T == 0 then
3: Calculate Pθ(xi) for each sample in X
4: Perform data filtering in Equation (7)
5: Update datasets Xnat and Xadv
6: end if
7: Calculate Ltrain and update θ
8: end for
9: Return The trained model with θ∗
Based on this, we present the whole training
process of VDAT in Algorithm 1. As can be
seen, the data filtering is performed with a pre-
defined interval T in the whole training process
(line 2). During the data filtering, the probability
Pθ(xi) is calculated in the first step (line 3), and
then the data filtering and the update of Xnat and
Xadv are performed sequentially (lines 4 and 5).
Moreover, the network parameter θ is updated
based on calculating the training loss Ltrain in
each epoch (line 7). Finally, the trained model
can be obtained. It is worth noting that we intro-
duce a hyperparameter T indicating the interval
of data filtering. This is because the data filter-
ing introduces additional computational budget
in the training process due to the vulnerability calculation, and this hyperparameter can balance the
total training cost and the performance of the trained model. Detailed analysis of this hyperparameter
is presented in our experiments. Besides, additional details regarding the workflow of VDAT can be
found in Appendix A.
4.3 Time Complexity Analysis
In this section, we present the time complexity analysis of the proposed VDAT method. For the
margin-based vulnerability calculation, because we need to iterate over all n samples in the target
5