2888 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING, VOL. 37, NO. 5, MA Y 2025
REP: An Interpretable Robustness Enhanced Plugin
for Differentiable Neural Architecture Search
Y uqi Feng , Graduate Student Member , IEEE, Y anan Sun , Senior Member , IEEE,G a r yG .Y e n , Fellow, IEEE,
and Kay Chen Tan , Fellow, IEEE
Abstract—Neural architecture search (NAS) is widely used to
automate the design of high-accuracy deep architectures, which
are often vulnerable to adversarial attacks in practice due to
the lack of adversarial robustness. Existing methods focus on the
direct utilization of regularized optimization process to address
this critical issue, which causes the lack of interpretability for the
end users to learn how the robust architecture is constructed. In
this paper, we introduce a robust enhanced plugin (REP) method
for differentiable NAS to search for robust neural architectures.
Different from existing peer methods, REP focuses on the robust
search primitives in the search space of NAS methods, and naturally
has the merit of contributing to understanding how the robust
architectures are progressively constructed. Speciﬁcally, we ﬁrst
propose an effective sampling strategy to sample robust search
primitives in the search space. In addition, we also propose a prob-
abilistic enhancement method to guarantee natural accuracy and
adversarial robustness simultaneously during the search process.
We conduct experiments on both convolutional neural networks
and graph neural networks with widely used benchmarks against
state of the arts. The results reveal that REP can achieve superiority
in terms of both the adversarial robustness to popular adversarial
attacks and the natural accuracy of original data. REP is ﬂexible
and can be easily used by any existing differentiable NAS methods
to enhance their robustness without much additional effort.
Index Terms—Neural architecture search, adversarial attacks,
adversarial robustness, search space, robust search primitives.
I. I NTRODUCTION
D
EEP neural networks (DNNs) have played a crucial role
in addressing many real-world applications [1].H o w -
ever, most DNN architectures are manually designed by do-
main experts, which is often time-consuming, labor-intensive
and error-prone. Neural architecture search (NAS) [2] which
aims at automatically designing DNN architectures without vast
expertise have received extensive attention. Speciﬁcally, NAS
automates the design of deep architectures by formulating it
Received 17 June 2024; revised 9 December 2024; accepted 14 February 2025.
Date of publication 18 February 2025; date of current version 25 March 2025.
This work was supported in part by the National Natural Science Foundation of
China under Grant 62276175, and in part by the Research and Develop Program
of West China Hospital of Stomatology Sichuan University under Grant RD-
03-202403. Recommended for acceptance by L. Nie. (Corresponding author:
Yanan Sun.)
Y uqi Feng, Y anan Sun, and Gary G. Y en are with the College of
Computer Science, Sichuan University, Chengdu 610065, China (e-mail:
feng770623@gmail.com; ysun@scu.edu.cn; gyen@okstate.edu).
Kay Chen Tan is with the Department of Computing, The Hong Kong
Polytechnic University,, Hong Kong (e-mail: kctan@polyu.edu.hk).
The source code is available at https://github.com/fyqsama/REP.
Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/TKDE.2025.3543503
as an optimization problem, which is often discrete, bi-level,
computationally expensive and with complicated constraints.
A traditional NAS method is composed of three parts: the
search space, the search strategy, and the performance eval-
uation. Speciﬁcally, the search space deﬁnes all the possible
DNN architectures, where the optimal one is found through the
corresponding search strategy. The search strategy refers to the
algorithm which is used to search the optimal architecture in the
search space. Currently, the reinforcement learning (RL) [3],
[4], [5], the evolutionary algorithm (EA) [6] and the differ-
entiable algorithm [7] are the three popular search strategies
to realize NAS. Moreover, the performance evaluation decides
how efﬁcient the NAS methods would be through providing
a performance reward to the corresponding search strategy. In
practice, the computational budget of the differentiable NAS is
much smaller than that of RL-based and EA-based ones[7].T h i s
is because a supernet is adopted in the performance evaluation
phase of the differentiable NAS, and the performance of archi-
tectures is directly evaluated with the weights inherited from
the trained supernet instead of training each of them like the
RL-based and EA-based NAS do.
No matter which search strategy is utilized, the performance
evaluation of existing NAS methods mainly targets on the
natural accuracy of the resulted neural architectures, i.e., the
performance of the neural architectures inputted with original
data. When it comes to practical applications, such as deploying
at a vulnerable environment, the adversarial robustness is also
non-negligible and needs to be greatly concerned for the sake
of safety. Speciﬁcally, the adversarial robustness refers to the
accuracy of a neural network inputted with adversarial exam-
ples, which are often the original data perturbed by speciﬁc
algorithms. As evidenced by a very recent literature [8],t h e
neural architectures searched by NAS methods are vulnerable
against most adversarial examples.
The adversarial robust NAS is an emerging topic, and the
current research perspective is relatively simple-minded. Ex-
isting studies mainly focus on presenting different adversarial
robustness metrics as regularization into the search strategy of
NAS, and then the adversarial robustness of the architecture is
directly achieved through the black-box optimization process.
For example, Mok et al. [9] take the perspective of the input
loss landscape. They indicate that a smooth input loss landscape
can make the model more resistant to perturbations and results
in a robust model. Consequently, the input loss landscape is
regularized as an additional search target into the search process
1041-4347 © 2025 IEEE. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining, and training of artiﬁcial intelligence and similar technologi es.
Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission. See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index. html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: SHENZHEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on April 22,2025 at 08:25:23 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
FENG et al.: REP: AN INTERPRETABLE ROBUSTNESS ENHANCED PLUGIN FOR DIFFERENTIABLE NEURAL ARCHITECTURE SEARCH 2889
for the robust NAS. Dong et al. [10] start from the Lipschitz
constant and the adversarial robustness of architectures, and
then explore the relationship between both. After that, they
conclude that the smaller the Lipschitz constant is, the better
adversarial robustness the models have. Finally, they improve the
adversarial robustness by reducing the Lipschitz constant during
the optimization process with an explicit regularization term.
Moreover, Hosseini et al. [11] propose two adversarial robust-
ness metrics based on the certiﬁcated lower bound and Jacobian
regularization, and both metrics are enumerated and regularized
to the objective functions of differentiable NAS to perform joint
maximal optimization. In addition, Cheng et al. [12] design
an adversarial noise estimator to generate adversarial examples
under different attack strengths, and the adversarial losses of
these examples are optimized together with the natural loss. As
a result, the neural architectures with wide spectrum adversarial
robustness can be determined.
Although these methods have demonstrated the effectiveness
in their respective experiments, it is not clear why the result-
ing architectures are robust when they are used. Speciﬁcally,
these methods mainly committed to search for robust neural
architectures through optimization with additional regulariza-
tion components measuring adversarial robustness. However,
the optimization process is black-box with poor interpretability,
and it cannot explain which elements lead to the improvement of
adversarial robustness. This would inevitably harm the further
development of robust NAS and the end users still have sufﬁ-
cient conﬁdence to safely explore the resulting architectures in
real-world practice. In this paper, we propose a plugin approach
for robust NAS called Robust Enhanced Plugin (REP), which
takes the perspective of improving interpretability regarding the
construction of robust neural architectures. Different from pre-
vious researches that are often achieved via regularization terms,
what we particularly concentrated in this work is the robust
search primitives in the search space, which are beneﬁcial for
the adversarial robustness of the architecture. By constructing
the ﬁnal architecture upon the robust search primitives, it is
easy to understand why the resulting architecture is robust and
what cause the improvement of the adversarial robustness of the
resulting neural architectures. As its name states, REP has the
merit of good ﬂexibility owing to its plugin nature and can be
generally applied to various differentiable NAS methods which
are very popular among the existing NAS methods. In summary,
this paper makes the following contributions:
r We develop REP to reveal a new research perspective on
developing robust NAS method focusing on robust search
primitives, which tends to improve the interpretability
on the construction of robust architectures. Precisely, we
propose a sampling strategy for ﬁnding the robust search
primitives in the search space. Because the primitives are
the basic building blocks to construct the whole architec-
ture, the details of generating a robust architecture become
publicly available.
r We propose a probabilistic enhancement search strategy
to additionally combat for the natural accuracy to original
data. This is with the practical fact that existing work can
only guarantee the adversarial robustness. In the proposed
search strategy, the probability of the robust search primi-
tives being selected is enhanced in the form of a distance
metric, while other search primitives can still be selected to
the architecture to guarantee the natural accuracy. Conse-
quently, the adversarial robustness and the natural accuracy
can be simultaneously achieved.
r We show REP with the characteristics for both euclidean
data and non-euclidean data. In particular, we evaluated
REP for convolutional neural network (CNN) on CIFAR-
10, CIFAR-100, and ImageNet datasets, and graph neural
network (GNN) on Cora, CiteSeer, and PubMed datasets
against various kinds of popular adversarial attacks. In ad-
dition, the ablation study also proves that the designed com-
ponents can positively improve the performance of REP .
Furthermore, REP also demonstrates promising transfer-
ability in terms of both adversarial robustness and natural
accuracy.
The remainder of this article is organized as follows. The
background is introduced in Section II. Then, the preliminary
and the proposed REP method are detailed in Section III.A f t e r
that, the design and the results of experiments are demonstrated
in Sections IV and V, respectively. Finally, the conclusion and
discussion are presented in Section VI.
II. R ELA TEDWORK
To help readers better understand REP , the related work
of NAS and adversarial attacks and defenses are detailed in
Sections II-A and II-B, respectively.
A. Neural Architecture Search (NAS)
Generally, the NAS methods are mainly divided into three cat-
egories according to the different search strategies adopted: RL-
based NAS [3], [13], EA-based NAS[6], [14], and differentiable
NAS [7]. The earliest proposed NAS method [3] is based on RL,
which ﬁrst constructs a controller to generate the architecture
representation, and then the corresponding architecture is trained
from scratch and evaluated for obtaining reward. This process
is repeated until the termination condition is met. After that,
the ﬁnal architecture is selected from the candidates. The EA-
based NAS initially encodes a set of different architectures into
population individuals, and then the ﬁtness of each individual is
evaluated to iteratively guide the heuristic search through genetic
operators, until the architecture with the promising ﬁtness is
found conditioned with some criterion. When evaluating the
ﬁtness of individuals, the EA-based NAS needs to train each
individual on the training set and get the validation accuracy of
them on the validation set. For both kinds of NAS, the training
process of each neural architecture leads to much computational
budget of the RL-based NAS and EA-based NAS.
As for the differentiable NAS, they often relax the discrete
NAS problem into a continuous one through a supernet, where
the connection possibility of nodes is modeled as classiﬁcation
problems. After that, the gradient-based algorithm is adopted for
solving. Owing to the efﬁciency and efﬁcacy, the differentiable
NAS methods currently dominate the development of NAS and
have diverse variants [15], [16], and this is also the reason why
Authorized licensed use limited to: SHENZHEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on April 22,2025 at 08:25:23 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2890 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING, VOL. 37, NO. 5, MA Y 2025
the work in this paper is dedicated to the differentiable NAS.
Among the variants of the differentiable NAS, DARTS [7] is
the most popular one. Speciﬁcally, there are nodes and edges
organized as a directed acyclic graph (DAG) in the supernet of
DARTS, where each node x(i) is a latent representation (such
as a feature map), and each edge (i,j ) between nodes i andj is
associated with an operation o(i,j) adopted on node i.D A R T S
constructs a mixed operation o(i,j) on each edge formulated
by (1):
o(i,j)(x)=
∑
o∈O
exp(α(i,j)
o )
∑
o′∈Oexp(α(i,j)
o′ )
o(x), (1)
where O represents all the candidate operations and α(i,j)
o
denotes the weight of operation o on edge (i,j ). Therefore,
the choice of operations on each edge is parameterized as a
vector α(i,j) with dimension |O|. After that, the differentiable
algorithm, such as the gradient-based algorithm, is used for
learning a set of weights α= {α(i,j)}. With the αlearned, the
operation on edge (i,j ) can be obtained through (2):
o(i,j) = arg max
o∈O
α(i,j)
o . (2)
Finally, the resulting architecture is determined. Based on the
idea of supernet in DARTS, some recent work has further
explored the topology search in the supernet. For example,
Gu et al. [17] decouple the operation and topology search in
DARTS. Y ang et al. [18] search for the topology based on the
designed cells. Although these methods have achieved decent
performance, they still suffer from the limitation of poor inter-
pretability caused by the black-box properties of the gradient-
based algorithms. Speciﬁcally, they directly used the optimized
weights of search primitives to determine their merits. However,
because the optimization process is a black-box process, they
cannot know why the selected search primitives are beneﬁcial,
leading to the poor interpretability of the search process. This is
also the motivation of REP in this paper.
B. Adversarial Attacks and Defenses
Adversarial attacks add imperceptible perturbations to the
input data to check if the attacked neural network models are
robust [11]. This is based on the observation that neural networks
are easily fooled by adversarial examples [19].
In practice, the fast gradient sign method (FGSM) [20],p r o -
jected gradient descent (PGD)[21], automatic projected gradient
descent (AutoPGD) [22], and Carlini&Wagner (C&W) [23] at-
tacks are often used to generate adversarial examples for CNNs,
which is achieved by modifying a small number of pixels in the
input image of CNN. Speciﬁcally, the FGSM attack ﬁrst com-
putes the gradient of the model on the input data, and then the di-
rection of the gradient is determined. After that, the perturbation
is generated by multiplying the direction of the gradient by the
preset step size. Finally, the adversarial example is determined
by adding the perturbation to the input data. Furthermore, the
PGD attack employs a multi-step perturbation adding method.
In each step, the direction of the gradient will be redetermined to
add perturbations more precisely. Therefore, PGD attack is much
stronger than FGSM attack. To further improve the PGD attack,
AutoPGD adds the automatic adjustment of attack parameters
to PGD. Speciﬁcally, AutoPGD can adjust the step size for each
step in PGD. The experiments [22] have shown that AutoPGD
attack is slightly stronger than PGD attack. Different from three
methods introduced above, C&W attack takes the perspective
of optimization to generate adversarial examples. The C&W
attack minimizes the distance between the original data and
the adversarial examples generated. Meanwhile, the probability
of adversarial examples being classiﬁed into a wrong class is
maximized. By solving this optimization problem, C&W can
generate stronger adversarial examples than those generated by
FGSM, PGD, and AutoPGD.
For GNNs, the DICE [24] and the node embedding [25]
attacks are representative attacks, which aim to generate adver-
sarial examples through adding or deleting edges in the original
graph. Speciﬁcally, DICE generates adversarial examples by
randomly deleting edges between the nodes of the same class
and adding edges between the nodes of the different classes in
the original graph. The percentage of add or delete operations
performed on edges cannot exceed the predetermined perturba-
tion rate. Moreover, the node embedding attack adds or deletes
a certain number of edges in the original graph with the limit
of the predetermined perturbation rate, in order to damage the
embedding of the GNN learned from the input data. Then the
performance of GNN suffers in the case of the poorly learned
embedding. Although the attack schemes are different for CNNs
and GNNs, the effectiveness of REP would not be affected when
applied to both CNNs and GNNs. This is because REP only
needs the values of adversarial robustness, which is independent
to the particular attack schemes. Speciﬁcally, the robust search
primitives are selected by comparing the adversarial robustness
of architectures sampled in adjacent epochs. In the comparison
process, only the values of the adversarial robustness are com-
pared, no matter which scheme is adopted to obtain the values.
On the other hand, the adversarial defenses aim to improve
the adversarial robustness of neural networks to resist adver-
sarial attacks. The popular defense methods mainly include the
adversarial example detection [26], the random smooth [27],t h e
robust loss functions[28], [29], and the adversarial training[30],
[31]. Among those, the adversarial training is widely used due
to its simplicity and effectiveness [9]. Speciﬁcally, adversarial
training ﬁrst generates adversarial examples from the training
data according to the trainable parameters of the model in the
ith training epoch. After that, the adversarial examples are used
to train the model, and the trainable parameters of the model in
the (i +1 )th epoch will be obtained. This process is repeated
until the end of the training. However, all these methods assume
the neural network whose architecture has been established in
advance, and then the adversarial robustness is obtained through
the learning process driven by these methods. In this paper,
the proposed work aims to improve the robustness of neural
networks via NAS.
III. M ETHODOLOGY
In this section, we ﬁrst present the preliminary in
Section III-A. Then, the overall framework of the proposed
REP method is shown in Section III-B. After that, the two main
Authorized licensed use limited to: SHENZHEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on April 22,2025 at 08:25:23 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
FENG et al.: REP: AN INTERPRETABLE ROBUSTNESS ENHANCED PLUGIN FOR DIFFERENTIABLE NEURAL ARCHITECTURE SEARCH 2891
components of REP are detailed in Sections III-C and III-D,
respectively. Finally, the interpretability and effectiveness of
REP are discussed in Sections III-E and III-F, respectively.
A. Preliminary
The proposed REP method is a plugin method, which relies
on the speciﬁc search spaces of the differentiable NAS method
to be plugged by REP . However, existing NAS methods have
different search spaces with different deﬁnitions. In order to
better use REP , the search spaces in REP are redeﬁned, and the
details are provided below.
In differentiable NAS methods, the search space is indicated
by a supernet where nodes and edges are formed as a DAG.
In REP , we deﬁne a search primitive as one edge e afﬁliated
with an operation o and represented as (e,o ). With this, the
search space S can be redeﬁned as nodes with a set of search
primitivesS = {(e,o ) | e ∈E,o ∈O }whereE denotes the set
of all possible edges between nodes and O denotes the set of all
the candidate operations on edges. Moreover, an architecture
with n search primitives can be denoted as {b1,b 2,...,b n |
bi ∈S,i =1 , 2,...,n }. Based on these, we further give the
deﬁnition of robust search primitives. Given two different pairs
of architectures Ai, Aj and Ak, Al, the adversarial robustness
of them satisﬁes Ri > Rj and Rk < Rl. In this condition, if
a search primitive b satisﬁes b ∈Ai,Al and b/∈Aj,Ak,t h i s
search primitive is considered as a robust search primitive.
B. Algorithm Overview
Based on the deﬁnitions above, the overall framework of
the proposed REP method is shown in Algorithm 1, where the
contributions of this paper are in bold and italic. To begin with,
the search spaceS and the search strategyP of the NAS method
which is plugged by REP are given, and through a series of
main components of REP , the architecture with both high natural
accuracy and adversarial robustness is discovered. The main
components of REP consist of three consequential parts: adver-
sarial robustness evaluation (lines 3-13), robust search primitives
sampling strategy (line 14), and probability enhancement search
strategy (line 15).
In the ﬁrst part, two empty setsA andR which will record the
searched architectures and their respective adversarial robust-
ness are created. Then, a counter i indicating the current search
epoch is initialized (line 3). After that, the given NAS method
is iteratively performed for N search epochs. In each search
epoch i, the architecture Ai searched in this epoch is recorded
and stored (lines 5-6). After that, the adversarial robustness
of the architecture is evaluated and recorded (lines 7-11). In
particular, to accelerate the evaluation process, if the architecture
Ai is the same as an architectureAj wherej<i , its adversarial
robustnessRi will be directly referred to the same value as Rj
(line 8). Otherwise, the weights of the architectureAi are directly
inherited from the supernet, and then its adversarial robustness
will be evaluated by the adversarial attack (line 10). In the second
part, the proposed robust search primitives sampling strategy is
performed upon the stored architectures and their adversarial
robustness values to sample robust search primitives (line 14).
Algorithm 1: Overall Framework of REP .
Finally, the ﬁnal architecture is obtained by the proposed search
strategy (line 15). For a better understanding of how REP works
with differentiable NAS methods, an example is shown in Fig. 1
where the DARTS [7] algorithm is chosen as the target NAS
method to be plugged by REP .
C. Sampling Strategy for Robust Search Primitives
In order to sample the robust search primitives from the
pre-acquired architectures A with adversarial robustness values
R efﬁciently, we propose a novel sampling strategy focusing
on the relationship between the adversarial robustness of the
architectures and the search primitives in them. The pseudo-code
of the proposed sampling strategy is shown in Algorithm 2.I n
particular, given the set of architecturesA with their adversarial
robustness R, through the robust search primitive sampling
(lines 3-14), the robust search primitives are ﬁnally determined
(line 15).
In the robust search primitives sampling process, the total
numberN of sampling iterations is ﬁrst initialized to the number
of architectures in A (line 3). Then, two empty sets B1 and B2
are initialized to store the sampled search primitives (line 4), and
the counter of the iterations is set to one (line 5). Next, the sets of
search primitives are obtained through a single traversal ofA and
R (lines 6-14). Speciﬁcally, given two adjacent architecturesAi
and Ai+1 with respective adversarial robustness Ri and Ri+1,
if the adversarial robustness Ri < Ri+1, the search primitives
in architectureAi+1 but not appearing inAi, which are denoted
Authorized licensed use limited to: SHENZHEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on April 22,2025 at 08:25:23 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2892 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING, VOL. 37, NO. 5, MA Y 2025
Fig. 1. An example of REP when DARTS is plugged by REP . The illustration contains two parts: the ﬂow of DARTS algorithm (upper part) and the process
of REP (lower part). In the upper part, given the pre-determined nodes and operations, through two main steps, i.e., the search space initialization a nd the search
process, the architecture with high natural accuracy but poor adversarial robustness is determined. To be more visible, the search primitives with l arger weights are
denoted as thicker lines while the smaller weights are denoted as thinner lines. In the lower part, the proposed REP method ﬁrst takes effects of the sea rch process
of DARTS, and the architecture with both high natural accuracy and adversarial robustness is searched through the two sequential parts highlighted i nb l u ea n d
green.
Algorithm 2: Sampling Robust Search Primitives.
as Ai+1 −Ai, are added to B1 (line 8). Otherwise, the search
primitives in Ai −Ai+1 are added to B2 (line 11). Once the
two sets B1 and B2 are obtained, at the end, the set of robust
search primitives B∗is taken from the intersection of both B1
and B2 (line 15). For a clearer understanding of the proposed
sampling strategy, we demonstrate an example of four neural
architectures to show the process of robust search primitives
sampling in Fig. 2.
The sampling process is the core step of the proposed REP
method and the design of such a sampling strategy is based on our
observations. Speciﬁcally, our observations focus on setsA and
R. For architectures in A, two architectures in adjacent epochs
have small changes between their search primitives. Meanwhile,
Fig. 2. An example of the proposed sampling strategy for robust search
primitives. The illustration begins with two groups of adjacent architectures
Am,Am+1 andAn,An+1, through the proposed sampling strategy, the robust
search primitives from these architectures are sampled in the end. The sampling
strategy consists of two parts: the acquisition of sets B1 (the upper part) and
B2 (the lower part). In the ﬁrst part, taking the architectures Am and Am+1
as an example, the adversarial robustness of them exists in the relationship
Rm < Rm+1 and there are two different search primitives between these two
architectures which are marked with a red dashed line. Following the sampling
strategy, the search primitive between nodes 0 and 3 is added to B1.I nt h e
second part, the acquisition ofB2 follows the same process. At the end, the robust
search primitive in these architectures is selected by taking the intersection ofB1
andB2.
we ﬁnd that the adversarial robustness of architectures with
adjacent indexes in R are usually different. In addition, we also
observe that architectures in non-adjacent epochs are often quite
different from each other.
To support the above claims, we independently perform REP
ﬁve times to sample robust search primitives during the search
process of DARTS, and then visualize them in Fig. 3 for better
demonstration. Speciﬁcally, in Fig. 3(a), the horizontal axis
denotes the distribution regarding the number of different primi-
tives of each adjacent-architecture, and the vertical axis refers to
the corresponding number of adjacent-architectures. In Fig.3(b),
the horizontal axis denotes the search epoch, the left vertical axis
(for the purple line) denotes the number of different primitives
Authorized licensed use limited to: SHENZHEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on April 22,2025 at 08:25:23 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
FENG et al.: REP: AN INTERPRETABLE ROBUSTNESS ENHANCED PLUGIN FOR DIFFERENTIABLE NEURAL ARCHITECTURE SEARCH 2893
Fig. 3. Visualizations for different variables related to the sampling process
of robust search primitives.
of each adjacent-architecture, the right vertical axis (for the
orange line) denotes the difference of adversarial robustness
of each adjacent-architecture. In Fig. 3(c), the horizontal axis
denotes the ID of runs, the vertical axis denotes the distri-
bution regarding the number of different primitives of each
non-adjacent-architecture.
As shown in Fig. 3(a), there is the largest number of adjacent-
architectures with only one different primitive. Meanwhile, there
is also a large number of adjacent-architectures with zero or
two different primitives. These observations demonstrate the
adjacent-architectures are often similar. Furthermore, as shown
by the orange line in Fig. 3(b), the difference of adversar-
ial robustness shows relatively large changes among adjacent-
architectures. Consequently, it is demonstrated that adjacent-
architectures are similar but their adversarial robustness is not.
Based on above observations, we analyze that, because the
training settings for architectures are the same, the small changes
of search primitives in adjacent architectures can be the reason
for the change of adversarial robustness. Meanwhile, the small
changes of search primitives are beneﬁcial to narrowing the can-
didates when sampling robust search primitives, which can make
the sampling strategy more effective. Therefore, the proposed
sampling strategy spotlights on the adjacent architectures in A.
In addition, we also explain the reason for not sampling ro-
bust search primitives in non-adjacent-architectures. As shown
in Fig. 3(c), in each run, the minimum number of different
primitives in non-adjacent-architectures is constantly above ﬁve,
concentrating between six and ten. Obviously, non-adjacent-
architectures have much more different primitives comparing
with those of adjacent ones, and this is harmful to narrow the
candidates of robust search primitives. Therefore, we do not
sample robust search primitives in non-adjacent-architectures.
D. Probability Enhancement Search Strategy
To search the architecture with high natural accuracy and
adversarial robustness based on the robust search primitives
sampled, we propose a probability enhancement search strategy.
Following the conventions of differentiable NAS [7], [32],w e
denote the architecture with a set of weights αand learn the
weights in αto determine the resulting architecture.
Speciﬁcally, based on the pre-deﬁned setsE andO detailed in
our deﬁnitions in Section III-A, we can easily know that theαis
a matrix with the dimension of |E| × |O|. Because the number
of edges in search space S is |E|, and the number of candidate
operations on each edge is |O|. Moreover, each position (m,n )
in αdenotes the weight of an edge em ∈E afﬁliated with a
certain operation on ∈O, i.e., the weight of a search primitive
(em,on).
Motivated by the above characteristics of α, we introduce a
matrix αR with the same dimension as α:
αm,n
R =
{
1, if (em,on) is a robust search primitive,
0, otherwise. (3)
As shown in (3), the positions of robust search primitives in αR
are set with one, while other positions are set with zero. Obvi-
ously, when the distance betweenαandαR becomes smaller, the
weight of robust search primitives in αwill be larger, and more
robust search primitives will be contained in the architecture.
Therefore, we introduce a distance metric ψ(α) in (4) to denote
the distance between αandαR:
ψ(α)= ∥α−αR∥2
2. (4)
With the deﬁned distance metricψ(α), we only need to minimize
it in the search strategy and the ﬁnal architecture will have
more robust search primitives. moreover, we also need to ensure
the natural accuracy of the architecture. The search process is
formulated as (5) and (6):
min
α
Lval (ω∗(α),α)+ λψ(α), (5)
s.t. ω∗(α)= arg min
ω
Ltrain (ω,α), (6)
where Ltrain (·) and Lval (·) denote the loss on the training set
and the validation set, λ is a tradeoff parameter which balances
the validation loss of the architecture and the distance metric
ψ(α) when optimizingα, and and ωdenotes the set of trainable
parameters of the network. By solving the above optimization
problem, the architecture parameter αis determined once the
search process is ended. Finally, the resulting architecture is
determined based on αaccording to (2).
The addition of the distance metricψ(α) in (5) can beneﬁt two
aspects. First, the natural accuracy of the derived architecture
can be improved because ψ(α) can prevent the architecture
parameter αfrom overﬁtting on the validation set. Speciﬁcally,
as evidenced by the literature [33], purely minimizing the val-
idation loss Lval (ω∗(α),α) on the validation set can lead to
the drop of natural accuracy in the later stage of the search
process. The empirical results in this literature have also shown
that such drop is caused by the overﬁtting of αon the validation
set. Consequently, the distance metric ψ(α) can play the role
Authorized licensed use limited to: SHENZHEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on April 22,2025 at 08:25:23 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2894 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING, VOL. 37, NO. 5, MA Y 2025
of regularization to prevent αfrom overﬁtting on the validation
set. Therefore, the natural accuracy can be improved. Second, the
adversarial robustness of the searched architecture is achieved
at the same time when ψ(α) is introduced. This is because
the inclusion of ψ(α) leads to more robust search primitives
in the derived architectures, thus the adversarial robustness can
be improved. The further experimental veriﬁcation of this point
is conducted in Section V- D.
Furthermore, it is possible that all operations for one node are
all robust search primitives in an architecture. In this case, the
proposed REP method selects the one which is most beneﬁcial to
natural accuracy. Speciﬁcally, these robust search primitives are
viewed of the same importance inαR (the corresponding values
are all set to one) in the probability enhanced search process.
Through the optimization shown in (5), given the probability of
selecting each of these primitives is equally enhanced, the one
which is most beneﬁcial for minimizing the validation loss will
be determined. This is because there are only two objectives
in this optimization, i.e., the validation loss and the distance
metric ψ(α) corresponding to αR. In addition, there may be
some other methods to handle the above case, such as giving
some weights to those robust search primitives. These weights
need to be determined by additional complex algorithms, and
we will invest more effort to this point in future work.
E. Discussion on Interpretability of REP
To help the readers better understand the interpretability of
REP , the corresponding discussions are presented in this section.
The interpretability of REP can be divided into two aspects: the
interpretability of the process and the results.
First, the interpretability of the process is mainly brought by
the proposed probability enhancement search strategy. In the
search strategy, we focus on the distance metric ψ(α) in (4)
which is added to the objective function (5) with a weight λ.
Meanwhile,ψ(α) is minimized together with the validation loss
Lval . With the minimizedψ(α), the weights of the robust search
primitives in αwill be greater and the resulting architecture
will have more robust search primitives. In this process, though
the optimization is still black-box, we can plainly know that
how the metric ψ(α) added to the objective function leads the
search process. In other words, it explains that, after adding this
metric, which search primitives can be selected by the algorithm
and used to construct the ﬁnal architecture because of the ψ(α)
added. This leads to the higher interpretability of the process
than the existing robust NAS. For example, after searching the
architecture based on the input loss landscape in AdvRush [9],
we can only know the architecture searched has smooth input
loss, but we cannot know how the input loss landscape leads the
search process and which search primitives are selected by the
algorithm due to the metric of input loss landscape added.
Second, the interpretability of the results mainly comes from
the robust search primitives sampled by the proposed sampling
strategy. After the search process, we can clearly know why the
architecture searched is robust with the robust search primitives
sampled. Because one can clearly observe the robust search
primitives contained by the architecture searched by REP , which
make the architecture robust. Furthermore, to show the robust
search primitives do lead to the robustness improvement and
then demonstrate the interpretability of the results, we conduct
ablation studies in Section V- D. In contrast, when the robust
architectures are searched by black-box optimization process
in AdvRush [9], we cannot know that why this kind of design
can lead to smoother input loss landscape and better adversarial
robustness, and we can only know the architecture is robust. This
leads to the poor interpretability of the results of the existing
robust NAS methods.
F . Analysis for the Effectiveness of REP
The effectiveness of REP can be attributed to the adversarial
robustness evaluation in the sampling process for robust search
primitives. Speciﬁcally, the adversarial robustness evaluation
is performed based on a certain (or more) adversarial attack.
According to the results of the adversarial attack, the robust
search primitives are sampled from architectures which demon-
strate superior adversarial robustness under this attack. Conse-
quently, the adversarial robustness of the derived architecture,
which is composed of these robust search primitives sampled,
will be improved under this attack. Furthermore, owing to the
transferability and generalizability of adversarial attacks [34],
an architecture which performs robustly under one kind of
attack often also performs robustly under other kinds of attacks.
As a result, though the robust search primitives are sampled
from robust architectures under the certain attack, they are still
beneﬁcial to the adversarial robustness under other kinds of
attacks. Therefore, the architectures derived by REP can achieve
better results under different adversarial attacks. For example,
the robust search primitives sampled based on FGSM or PGD
attacks are still effective under the C&W attack, as evidence by
the results shown in Table VII.
IV . EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN
In this section, the settings of the experiments are introduced
in detail. To begin with, the benchmark datasets are presented
in Section IV -A. After that, the peer competitors chosen are
introduced in Section IV -B. Finally, the parameter settings of
the experiments are detailed in Section IV -C.
A. Benchmark Datasets
To demonstrate the proposed REP method is efﬁcient for
both euclidean data and non-euclidean data, the experiments
are performed on popular benchmark datasets for both CNN and
GNN. Following the conventions[12], [35], [36], the benchmark
datasets CIFAR-10, CIFAR-100 [37], and ImageNet [38] are
selected for CNN, and Cora, CiteSeer, and PubMed [39] are
selected for GNN.
B. Peer Competitors
In order to show the superiority of the proposed REP method
in terms of both natural accuracy and adversarial robustness, we
choose the state-of-the-art models for the comparison. Speciﬁ-
cally, following the convention of robust NAS community [9],
Authorized licensed use limited to: SHENZHEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on April 22,2025 at 08:25:23 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
FENG et al.: REP: AN INTERPRETABLE ROBUSTNESS ENHANCED PLUGIN FOR DIFFERENTIABLE NEURAL ARCHITECTURE SEARCH 2895
[10], the competitors selected by us fall into three categories:
human-designed models, the models searched by representative
differentiable NAS baselines and the models searched by state-
of-the-art robust NAS methods.
For CNN, we choose the well-known human-designed mod-
els, i.e., ResNet [40] and DenseNet [41]. The differentiable NAS
baselines are DARTS [7],P D A R T S[15], and PCDARTS [42],
which are representative differentiable NAS methods. The ro-
bust NAS methods are SDARTS-ADV [43], RobNet [44],
RACL [10], and AdvRush [9], which can achieve the state-of-
the-art performance on both natural accuracy and adversarial
robustness.
For GNN, we also compare REP with human-designed mod-
els, the differentiable NAS baseline, and the robust graph NAS
method. The human-designed models are GCN [45],G A T[46],
and GraphSAGE [47], which are all well-known and commonly
used GNN models. Speciﬁcally, all of these models are widely
used for a variety of GNN-related tasks represented by the node
classiﬁcation task. Besides, we choose the popular SANE [32]
method as the differentiable NAS baseline. In addition, the
state-of-the-art robust graph NAS method G-RNA [35] is also
chosen as the peer competitor. In the experiments, we referred
to the ofﬁcial implementation of G-RNA in AutoGL[48] library
for comparisons.
C. Parameter Settings
In our experiments, most of the parameter settings are deter-
mined according to the conventions in communities of differen-
tiable NAS [7], [32] and robust NAS [9], [11], [49]. Speciﬁcally,
the detailed settings for search and measurement and other
implementation details are introduced as follows.
Parameter Settings for Search: In the probability enhance-
ment search process, the parameter λ which balances the natural
accuracy of the architecture and the distance metric ψ(α) is set
to 0.01, by following the conventions in [9], [11]. Furthermore,
it was also shown by AdvRush that the setting of 0.01 is effective
in achieving both natural accuracy and adversarial robustness.
Moreover, SGD [50] is used to optimize the network with the
learning rate of 0.025, the momentum of 0.9 and the weight
decay of 3e−4. Adam [51] is used to optimize the architecture
parameters with the learning rate of 3e−4 and the weight decay
of 1e−3 . For CNN, the epoch is set to 50 and 10 for sampling
and probability enhanced search, and the batch size is set to
64in order to ﬁt in a single GPU. For GNN, the epoch of search
process is set to 150 and 50 for the above two steps, respectively.
Parameter Settings for Measurement: After the search pro-
cess, we choose the architecture with the highest natural accu-
racy on the validation set as the ﬁnal architecture as the competi-
tors do. To evaluate the performance of models in the presence
and absence of adversarial defensive measures, the adversarial
training and standard training are performed to train the models.
For the adversarial training, CNN is trained for 200 epochs
and GNN is trained for 600 epochs. For the standard training,
CNN and GNN are both trained for 600 epochs. Following the
conventions [7], [9], [32], [52], 20 cells are stacked to form
the CNN architectures on CIFAR-10 and CIFAR-100, and the
number of initial channels is set to 36. In terms of ImageNet,
the number of cells is set to 14, and the number of initial
channels is set to 48. In addition, during the training of CNNs,
the learning rate is decayed by the factor of 0.1 at the 100th
and 150th epochs. During the training of GNNs, the learning
rate is decayed by cosine annealing. Moreover, the batch size
of the adversarial training and the standard training for CNNs
is set to 64 and 96, respectively. By following the suggestion
in [33], the cutout operation [53] is used to prevent overﬁtting in
the training processes. In addition, following the most common
training method of the peer competitors reported in their seminal
papers, SGD is used to optimize the weights in the network with
learning rate of 0.025, momentum of 0.9 and weight decay of
3e−4.
After training, the natural accuracy and adversarial robustness
are chosen to measure the performance of the models. In particu-
lar, the adversarial attacks for measurement are set with general
settings of the peer competitors to be representative [9], [11],
[24]. For CNN, FGSM is set with the total perturbation scale
ϵ =8 /255. C&W is set with attack iteration 100, the parameter
c =0 .5 and learning rate 0.01. PGD attack is set with total
attack iterations of 20, total perturbation scale ϵ =8 /255 and
s i n g l es t e ps i z eo fϵ =2 /255. AutoPGD attack is set with total
attack iterations of 20, total perturbation scale ϵ =8 /255 with
l∞ bound and cross-entropy loss. For GNN, the random attack,
DICE, and node embedding attack are used with 5% perturbation
rates in the original graph. In addition, the harmonic robustness
score (HRS) [8] is also adopted for evaluation. This is because
HRS is calculated based on natural accuracy and adversarial
robustness and can evaluate models in the combination of both
aspects.
Other Implementation Details: The experimental codes were
implemented on Python 3.7 and with the deep learning library
PyTorch 1.6.0 [54]. For the implementation for GNN, we used
the library named PyTorch Geometric [55]. When generating
adversarial examples, we used the open-source adversarial at-
tack toolboxes TorchAttacks[56] and DeepRobust [57] for CNN
and GNN, respectively.
V. E XPERIMENTAL RESULTS AND ANAL YSIS
In this section, ﬁrst of all, the overall results are presented in
Section V- A. After that, the experimental results of REP under
different adversarial attack strengths are shown in Section V- B.
Then, the analysis on the proposed sampling strategy for robust
search primitives is conducted in SectionV- C. Finally, the results
of extensive ablation studies are carried out in Section V- D.
A. Overall Results
To show the effectiveness of REP comprehensively, the set
of architectures A are obtained on CIFAR-10 and Cora during
50 and 150 search epochs of DARTS [7] and SANE [32] for
CNN and GNN, respectively. Then, the robust search primitives
are sampled from A by REP . Finally, the derived architecture
(denoted as REP for simplicity) is determined through REP
based on the robust search primitives sampled. Notably, the
experimental results are composed of four parts. In the ﬁrst two
Authorized licensed use limited to: SHENZHEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on April 22,2025 at 08:25:23 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2896 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING, VOL. 37, NO. 5, MA Y 2025
TABLE I
OVERALL RESULTS FOR CNN ON CIFAR-10, CIFAR-100, AND IMAGENET
parts, following the conventions in [9], [10] and [11], all the
models are trained with two methods: adversarial training and
standard training. In the third and fourth part, to measure the
transferability of the architectures, we keep all the CNN and
GNN architectures the same as themselves on CIFAR-10 and
Cora, and then they are adversarially trained on CIFAR-100,
ImageNet, CiteSeer, and PubMed. Please note that the fast
adversarial training technique [31] is adopted to reduce the
computational cost for the adversarial training on ImageNet.
Convolutional Neural Network: We report the comparison
results in Table I, where the architecture of REP is searched on
CIFAR-10. The robust search primitives are sampled by PGD
attack. The best values are shown in bold.
As can be seen in Table I, REP achieves the best natural
accuracy and adversarial robustness under all four adversarial
attacks in the case of adversarial training on CIFAR-10. In
the case of standard training on CIFAR-10, REP achieves the
natural accuracy which is higher than that of RACL, but lower
than the other peer competitors. However, REP outperforms
all the peer competitors in terms of the adversarial robustness.
Meanwhile, REP also achieves the state-of-the-art performance
on CIFAR-100 and large-scale classiﬁcation task, i.e., ImageNet.
In addition, REP achieves the best HRS metric in all four cases,
indicating that REP is still effective when considering robust
metric beyond the performance under adversarial attacks.
To further validate the consistency of REP , we also per-
form experiments on both NAS-Bench-101 [58] and NA TS-
Bench [59]. REP is also integrated into DARTS to search for
architectures. For peer competitors, please note that we directly
TABLE II
OVERALL RESULTS FOR CNN ON NAS-BENCH-101 AND NATS-BENCH
BENCHMARKS
run the open source code of them on both NAS-Bench-101
search space and the topology search space St of NA TS-Bench.
The experimental results are shown in Table II. As can be seen,
REP achieves the best performance on both NAS-Bench-101
and NA TS-Bench. Meanwhile, REP achieves signiﬁcant im-
provements against DARTS. Speciﬁcally, the performance drop
of DARTS is caused by the domination of the parameter-free
operation, i.e., the “skip connection” operation, in the derived
architecture [33]. As a result, both natural accuracy and adversar-
ial robustness drop signiﬁcantly because the derived architecture
is ﬁlled with such parameter-free operation. In contrast, REP
can alleviate such domination in the derived architecture. This
is because REP introduces the distance metric ψ(α), which can
increase the probability of selecting other kinds of operations
Authorized licensed use limited to: SHENZHEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on April 22,2025 at 08:25:23 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
FENG et al.: REP: AN INTERPRETABLE ROBUSTNESS ENHANCED PLUGIN FOR DIFFERENTIABLE NEURAL ARCHITECTURE SEARCH 2897
TABLE III
OVERALL RESULTS FOR GNN ON CORA,C ITESEER, AND PUBMED
against the parameter-free operation. Consequently, the archi-
tecture derived by REP is not dominated by the parameter-free
operation. This is also the reason that REP + DARTS performs
much better than DARTS does.
Graph Neural Network: The comparison results of GNN in
four cases are reported in Table III. Because the time overhead
of the training for GNN is much smaller than that of CNN, the
average values of ﬁve times of training with standard deviation
are reported. Moreover, we report the natural accuracy and
adversarial robustness under random attack, DICE attack, and
node embedding attack of the models.
In terms of the adversarial and standard training on Cora,
REP outperforms all the competitors chosen. Moreover, when
transferring the models directly to CiteSeer, REP can still de-
liver the state-of-the-art performance among the competitors,
demonstrating the superior transferability. Meanwhile, REP still
achieves the best performance on PubMed which is larger than
Cora and CiteSeer. In addition, REP also achieves the highest
HRS metric in all four cases, further demonstrating the effec-
tiveness of REP on GNN.
Search Cost Analysis: Because the search cost is an important
factor indicating the efﬁciency of NAS, the search cost of REP
and peer competitors is also contained in overall results. As
shown in Table I, the search cost of REP is 0.7 GPU days
for CNN, without introducing much additional search cost.
Furthermore, we present the computational cost of each step
of REP in Table IV. As can be seen, the cost of the original
search is the same as that of DARTS (about 0.5 GPU days).
The cost of the robust evaluation is 0.18 GPU days for CNN. In
addition, the cost of the probability enhancement search process
is 0.07 GPU days.
Moreover, as shown in Table III, the search cost of REP is
0.0015 GPU days for GNN. Although additional search time
is introduced by REP , the search cost of REP is considered
TABLE IV
THE SEARCH COST OF EACH STEP OF REP FOR CNN AND GNN
practical because the training and evaluation for GNN is much
more efﬁcient than those of CNN. As shown in Table IV,t h e
computational cost of the robust search primitives sampling
is 0.0013 GPU days for GNN in which robustness evaluation
accounts for 0.0005 GPU days. In summary, REP can effectively
improve the natural accuracy and adversarial robustness without
introducing much computational budget.
B. Comparison Under Different Attack Strengths
Ideally, the models are attacked by the predetermined at-
tack strength of each type of adversarial attack as shown in
Section V- A. However, the strength of adversarial attacks is
actually uncertain in applications. In order to evaluate the adver-
sarial robustness more comprehensively, we perform adversarial
attacks with different attack strengths to attack both CNN and
GNN models chosen.
Speciﬁcally, we choose the popular PGD attack with different
attack iterations to attack CNN models on CIFAR-10. The attack
iteration is set from one to 50 in experiments. The results are
presented in Fig. 4(a), where the horizontal axis indicates the
attack iterations and the vertical axis represents the adversarial
robustness. As shown in Fig. 4(a), when the attack iteration
Authorized licensed use limited to: SHENZHEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on April 22,2025 at 08:25:23 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2898 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING, VOL. 37, NO. 5, MA Y 2025
Fig. 4. Visualization results of models under different attack strengths.
(a) CNNs on CIFAR-10. (b) GNNs on Cora.
Fig. 5. The visualization of the average adversarial robustness under the PGD
attack of the architectures sampled by REP .
of PGD attack is increasing, the performance of the models
is decreasing due to the stronger attack. For each model, REP
achieves the best adversarial robustness among all peer competi-
tors under different attack iterations.
On the other hand, the DICE attack with different perturbation
rates is performed to attack GNN models. In the experiment, the
perturbation rate is set to 0%, 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, and 50%.
For each perturbation rate, we attack each model for 30 times
and report the best, worst, and average performance, which are
denoted as upper and lower boundaries of each color area, and
the points on each line, respectively. The experimental results
are shown in Fig. 4(b), where the horizontal axis indicates
the perturbation rates and the vertical axis demonstrates the
adversarial robustness. As can be seen, the mean performance of
REP is the best among all the GNN models, showing that REP
performs more robustly in face of the adversarial attack with the
increasing attack strength.
C. Analysis on Robust Search Primitives Sampling Strategy
For an in-depth investigation for the effectiveness of robust
search primitives sampled, we analyze the adversarial robustness
of different architectures along with the robust search prim-
itives sampled. In order to reﬂect the adversarial robustness
of architectures with or without robust search primitives, the
average adversarial robustness of both kinds of architectures are
reported. The experimental results are shown in Fig.5, where the
vertical axis denotes the average adversarial robustness under the
PGD attack of the architectures, and the horizontal axis denotes
different search primitives contained by architectures.
As can be seen in Fig. 5(a) and (b), the architectures with
robust search primitives often have relatively superior adver-
sarial robustness, higher than the ones without robust search
TABLE V
THE EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS OF REP WITH DIFFERENT DIFFERENTIABLE
NAS METHODS
primitives. Meanwhile, giving that there are different combi-
nations of search primitives in different architectures, we can
come to the conclusion that the robust search primitives often
have a positive effect on the adversarial robustness with different
combinations of search primitives. Thus, the effectiveness of the
sampled robust search primitives can be further justiﬁed.
D. Ablation Study
The ablation study contains six parts in total. In particular,
the ﬁrst focuses on different NAS methods, to demonstrate the
ﬂexibility of REP as a plugin method. The second is about the
different adversarial attacks for sampling robust search prim-
itives, to investigate the effect of different adversarial attacks
for robustness evaluation. The third is regarding the architecture
pool construction methods, to justify the validity of the proposed
architecture pool construction method in REP . The fourth aims
at sets B1 andB2, to further explore the individual contribution
of the sampled search primitives inB1 andB2. The ﬁfth is about
the distance metrics, to investigate the effectiveness of different
distance metrics for regularization. The sixth places attention on
different types of search primitives, to show the interpretability
and the validity of the design of the probability enhancement
search strategy of REP .
Different NAS Methods with REP: We choose three represen-
tative differentiable NAS methods: DARTS [7],P D A R T S[15],
and PCDARTS [42] to be integrated by REP . During the search
process of these NAS methods, the architecture of each search
epoch is recorded and evaluated, and then the robust search
primitives are sampled by REP from these architectures. Finally,
the resulting architectures are identiﬁed by REP and evaluated
to do the comparison.
The experimental results of REP with three differentiable
NAS methods are shown in TableV. In the column “Models”, the
baselines (DARTS, PDARTS, and PCDARTS) and their variants
after adding REP (REP + DARTS, REP + PDARTS, and REP +
PCDARTS) are presented. As can be seen, the natural accuracy
is improved with the introduction of REP on the basis of all
the baselines chosen. In addition, the adversarial robustness is
improved under all adversarial attacks after REP is added. In
conclusion, REP demonstrates the promising performance for
different differentiable NAS methods as a plugin method.
Besides, we also perform REP on the single path one-shot
(SPOS) NAS method [60]. In particular, we consider the choice
blocks in the single path supernet of SPOS as search primitives,
and REP is performed to sample robust search primitives in that
supernet. The sampled robust search primitives are given larger
Authorized licensed use limited to: SHENZHEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on April 22,2025 at 08:25:23 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
FENG et al.: REP: AN INTERPRETABLE ROBUSTNESS ENHANCED PLUGIN FOR DIFFERENTIABLE NEURAL ARCHITECTURE SEARCH 2899
TABLE VI
THE EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS OF REP WITH THE ONE-SHOT NAS METHOD
TABLE VII
THE EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS OF SAMPLING ROBUST SEARCH PRIMITIVES
WITH DIFFERENT ADVERSARIAL ATTACKS
probability to be chosen in the search phase of SPOS. The results
are shown in TableVI. As can be seen, both natural accuracy and
adversarial robustness are improved after REP is integrated into
SPOS, demonstrating the effectiveness of REP for the one-shot
NAS method.
Different Adversarial Attacks for Sampling Robust Search
Primitives: In this set of experiments, we perform REP in three
cases. Speciﬁcally, the adversarial robustness is evaluated with:
1) only FGSM attack; 2) only PGD attack; 3) both FGSM and
PGD attacks. In the third case, the adversarial robustness is
calculated by averaging the evaluation results of FGSM and
PGD attacks. The baseline NAS algorithm chosen to be plugged
by REP is DARTS and the experimental results are shown in
Table VII.
As can be seen in Table VII, the model “REP + PGD”
achieves the best natural accuracy and adversarial robustness
under all attacks except C&W. “REP + FGSM + PGD” achieves
the second-best natural accuracy and adversarial robustness
adversarial attacks. Meanwhile, “REP + FGSM” demonstrates
the best adversarial robustness under C&W attack. According
to above observations, we ﬁnd that only using the stronger
adversarial attack (PGD) for robust evaluation in REP can
lead to higher adversarial robustness on most attacks (PGD,
APGD, and FGSM). On the contrary, only using the weaker
adversarial attack (FGSM) leads to lower adversarial robustness.
In addition, the above situations show the opposite robustness
under the C&W attack. This phenomenon can be explained
by the cross-over mixture problem [61]. Speciﬁcally, when the
adversarial attack becomes stronger (from REP + FGSM to REP
+ PGD), the cross-over mixture problem will become more seri-
ous. Meanwhile, the adversarial robustness under C&W attack
is inﬂuenced by this problem relatively easily [61], comparing
with that under FGSM, PGD, and APGD attacks. Consequently,
the adversarial robustness under C&W attack diminishes.
Ablation Study of the Architecture Pool Construction Method:
In this part, we conduct comparisons between the proposed
construction method and the random sampling method. Please
note that the comparisons are performed in three conditions
where DARTS, PDARTS, and PCDARTS are chosen to be
Fig. 6. Comparisons between the random sampling method and the architec-
ture pool construction method proposed in REP . The differentiable NAS methods
in which REP would plug are (a) DARTS, (b) PDARTS, and (c) PCDARTS.
TABLE VIII
THE EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS OF THE ABLA TIONSTUDY ON THE SETS OF
ROBUST SEARCH PRIMITIVES B1 AND B2
plugged by REP . In the random sampling process, the search
primitives are all randomly selected at ﬁrst from the search
space to construct different architectures. In particular, there
are 16 search primitives randomly selected to construct each
architecture, and the total number of constructed architectures
is kept the same as that recorded in the search process of DARTS,
PDARTS or PCDARTS. Then, all the constructed architectures
are adversarially trained to obtain their adversarial robustness.
After that, the trained architectures are randomly sorted. Finally,
the proposed sampling strategy of REP is adopted to sample
robust search primitives in the sorted architectures. The com-
parison results are visualized in Fig. 6. As can be seen, no
matter which differentiable NAS method is plugged by REP ,
the architecture pool construction method proposed in REP
often outperforms the random sampling method in terms of all
measurements.
Ablation Study of B1 and B2: In this part, the ablation study
forB1 andB2 is conducted. The experimental results are shown
in Table VIII, where the results from four cases are reported: 1)
searching with none of B1 andB2 (original DARTS); 2) search-
ing with B2 individually; 3) searching with B1 individually; 4)
searching with both B1 andB2 (REP).
As can be observed from Table VIII, the natural accuracy
values are all improved after introducingB1 orB2 individually or
bothB1 andB2 in the search process. This is because the distance
metric ψ(α) can always play the regularization role no matter
which set of search primitives (B1, B2 or the intersection of B1
and B2) are contained. Such regularization can prevent the ar-
chitecture parameterαfrom overﬁtting on the validation set[33]
and improve the natural accuracy of the searched architecture.
In addition, the adversarial robustness under four adversarial
attacks is also improved after introducing B1 orB2 individually
or the intersection of B1 and B2. In particular, it reaches the
best performance after searching with the intersection ofB1 and
B2. Consequently, the validity of the probability enhancement
search strategy is further justiﬁed.
Authorized licensed use limited to: SHENZHEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on April 22,2025 at 08:25:23 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2900 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING, VOL. 37, NO. 5, MA Y 2025
TABLE IX
THE EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS OF THE ABLA TIONSTUDY IN TERMS OF
DIFFERENT DISTANCE METRICS FOR REGULARIZA TION
TABLE X
THE RESULTS OF THE ABLA TIONSTUDY FOR ROBUST SEARCH PRIMITIVES AND
OTHER SEARCH PRIMITIVES
Different Distance Metrics for Regularization:To explore the
effectiveness of different distance metrics for regularization, we
choose three kinds of distance metrics (i.e., euclidean distance,
cosine distance, and KL divergence) to perform experiments.
The experimental results are presented in Table IX.
As can be seen from Table IX, no matter which distance
metric is adopted to the regularization, the natural accuracy
and adversarial robustness are both improved. Meanwhile, the
results of the euclidean distance are better than those of cosine
distance and KL divergence in terms of both natural accuracy and
adversarial robustness. This is also the reason for choosing the
euclidean distance for regularization in this work. In addition,
the KL divergence is shown to be slightly more effective than
the cosine distance in regularization.
Robust Search Primitives & Other Search Primitives: We
conduct ablation studies on robust search primitives and other
search primitives in this part. Although CNN and GNN are used
to handle different types of data (i.e., continuous image data and
discrete graph data, respectively) and the robust strategy on im-
age usually fails on graph-structured data [62], the architectures
of both CNN and GNN can be represented in the same form, i.e.,
DAGs. Meanwhile, the robust search primitives are edges along
with operations. Giving that REP focuses on the architectures
and search primitives. Therefore, REP can be generalized across
CNN and GNN no matter what kind of data they are used to
handle.
Furthermore, we conduct empirical studies for the robust
search primitives and other search primitives. For the CNN
architectures derived by REP , we remove some search primitives
in three cases so that the architecture remains: 1) Only other
search primitives except robust ones; 2) Only robust search
primitives; 3) Both robust and other search primitives. When
removing a certain search primitive, we replace the operation of
this search primitive with zero operation to achieve the deletion.
All three architectures are trained with adversarial training and
standard training with the same settings on CIFAR-10 and then
evaluated.
The experimental results are demonstrated in Table X.T ob e
more speciﬁc, “AdvT” indicates whether to perform adversarial
Fig. 7. The visualization of the CNN cells corresponding to the results in
Table X. The cells in the upper part do not include robust search primitives
sampled. The cells in the lower part includes the robust search primitives
sampled. The robust search primitives are shown as red arrows.
training or not, “Robust” and “Other” denote whether to reserve
robust search primitives and other search primitives or not in the
ﬁrst three columns of Table X.
First, we answer the research question that “ which elements
lead to the improvement of adversarial robustness”. As shown in
TableX, comparing with the architecture which does not include
any robust search primitives (the ﬁrst and fourth rows), both
natural accuracy and adversarial robustness are improved after
including robust search primitives (the third and sixth rows).
In other words, the architecture with the sampled robust search
primitives is considered more robust. Furthermore, we also visu-
alize both architectures with their corresponding performance in
Fig. 7. Speciﬁcally, the red arrows denote the robust search prim-
itives sampled. When the architecture includes robust search
primitives sampled, it will have higher natural accuracy and
adversarial robustness. In summary, the sampled robust search
primitives can lead to the improvement of adversarial robustness.
Second, for the validity of the design of probability enhance-
ment search strategy, when only reserving robust search primi-
tives in the search process (the second row and the ﬁfth row), both
natural accuracy and adversarial robustness of the architecture
are inferior to those of the architecture in the third and sixth
rows. Moreover, the architecture containing only robust search
primitives even performs worse than the architectures (the ﬁrst
row and the fourth row) in terms of most measurements. This
is because robust search primitives sampled are only a small
part of all primitives as shown in Fig. 7. When searching for
the architectures based on a small number of search primitives,
the number of operations and edges signiﬁcantly reduces in the
searched architecture. Obviously, this will lead to the perfor-
mance fall. Based on above analysis, the design of the proposed
probability enhancement search strategy which searches archi-
tectures with both robust and other search primitives is shown
to be reasonable.
VI. C ONCLUSION AND DISCUSSION
The goal of this paper is to design a robust enhanced plugin
method (REP), which can be ﬂexibly used for multiple differ-
entiable NAS methods to enhance the adversarial robustness.
This goal is achieved by developing the robust search primitives
sampling and the probability enhancement search strategy. The
Authorized licensed use limited to: SHENZHEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on April 22,2025 at 08:25:23 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
FENG et al.: REP: AN INTERPRETABLE ROBUSTNESS ENHANCED PLUGIN FOR DIFFERENTIABLE NEURAL ARCHITECTURE SEARCH 2901
proposed REP method is shown to be effective to both euclidean
data and non-euclidean data on popular benchmark datasets,
along with decent ﬂexibility and interpretability. However, REP
mainly focuses on differentiable NAS methods to search for
cell-based architectures. In this case, only cells stacked to form
a whole architecture can be searched, resulting in the generation
of similar architectures. In future, we will place more efforts
in improving REP for generating diverse architectures, in order
to adapt REP to a wider range of real-world tasks. As for the
potential negative social impact, the automation brought by
REP may increase unemployment in the neural network design
direction.
REFERENCES
[1] Y . LeCun, Y . Bengio, and G. Hinton, “Deep learning,” Nature, vol. 521,
no. 7553, pp. 436–444, 2015.
[2] T. Elsken, J. H. Metzen, and F. Hutter, “Neural architecture search: A
survey,” J. Mach. Learn. Res. , vol. 20, no. 1, pp. 1997–2017, 2019.
[3] B. Zoph and Q. Le, “Neural architecture search with reinforcement learn-
ing,” inProc. Int. Conf. Learn. Representations, 2017. [Online]. Available:
https://openreview.net/forum?id=r1Ue8Hcxg
[4] Y . Gao et al., “HGNAS: Efﬁcient architecture search for heterogeneous
graph neural networks,” IEEE Trans. Knowl. Data Eng. , vol. 35, no. 9,
pp. 9448–9461, Sep. 2023.
[5] Y . Gao et al., “GraphNAS : Distributed architecture search for graph neural
networks,” IEEE Trans. Knowl. Data Eng., vol. 35, no. 7, pp. 6973–6987,
Jul. 2023.
[6] E. Real et al., “Large-scale evolution of image classiﬁers,” in Proc. Int.
Conf. Mach. Learn., 2017, pp. 2902–2911.
[7] H. Liu, K. Simonyan, and Y . Y ang, “DARTS: Differentiable architecture
search,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Learn. Representations, 2019. [Online]. Avail-
able: https://openreview.net/forum?id=S1eYHoC5FX
[8] C. Devaguptapu, D. Agarwal, G. Mittal, P . Gopalani, and V . N. Balasubra-
manian, “On adversarial robustness: A neural architecture search perspec-
tive,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Int. Conf. Comput. Vis. , 2021, pp. 152–161.
[9] J. Mok, B. Na, H. Choe, and S. Y oon, “AdvRush: Searching for adversar-
ially robust neural architectures,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Int. Conf. Comput.
Vis., 2021, pp. 12322–12332.
[10] M. Dong, Y . Li, Y . Wang, and C. Xu, “Adversarially robust neural archi-
tectures,” 2020, arXiv: 2009.00902.
[11] R. Hosseini, X. Y ang, and P . Xie, “DSRNA: Differentiable search of
robust neural architectures,” inProc. IEEE/CVF Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern
Recognit., 2021, pp. 6196–6205.
[12] Z. Cheng, Y . Li, M. Dong, X. Su, S. Y ou, and C. Xu, “Neural architecture
search for wide spectrum adversarial robustness,” in Proc. AAAI Conf.
Artif. Intell., 2023, pp. 442–451.
[13] Z. Pan, L. Hu, W. Tang, J. Li, Y . He, and Z. Liu, “Privacy-preserving
multi-granular federated neural architecture search–a general framework,”
IEEE Trans. Knowl. Data Eng., vol. 35, no. 3, pp. 2975–2986, Mar. 2023.
[14] C. Wang, B. Chen, G. Li, and H. Wang, “Automated graph neural network
search under federated learning framework,” IEEE Trans. Knowl. Data
Eng., vol. 35, no. 10, pp. 9959–9972, Oct. 2023.
[15] X. Chen, L. Xie, J. Wu, and Q. Tian, “Progressive DARTS: Bridging the
optimization gap for NAS in the wild,”Int. J. Comput. Vis., vol. 129, no. 3,
pp. 638–655, 2021.
[16] C. Y an et al., “ZeroNAS: Differentiable generative adversarial networks
search for zero-shot learning,” IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell. ,
vol. 44, no. 12, pp. 9733–9740, Dec. 2022.
[17] Y .-C. Gu et al., “DOTS: Decoupling operation and topology in differen-
tiable architecture search,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern
Recognit., 2021, pp. 12311–12320.
[18] Y . Y ang, S. Y ou, H. Li, F. Wang, C. Qian, and Z. Lin, “Towards improving
the consistency, efﬁciency, and ﬂexibility of differentiable neural archi-
tecture search,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit.,
2021, pp. 6667–6676.
[19] C. Szegedy et al., “Intriguing properties of neural networks,”
2013, arXiv:1312.6199.
[20] I. J. Goodfellow, J. Shlens, and C. Szegedy, “Explaining and harnessing
adversarial examples,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Learn. Representations , 2015.
[21] A. Madry, A. Makelov, L. Schmidt, D. Tsipras, and A. Vladu, “Towards
deep learning models resistant to adversarial attacks,” in Proc. Int. Conf.
Learn. Representations, 2018. [Online]. Available: https://openreview.net/
forum?id=rJzIBfZAb
[22] F. Croce and M. Hein, “Reliable evaluation of adversarial robustness with
an ensemble of diverse parameter-free attacks,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Mach.
Learn., 2020, pp. 2206–2216.
[23] N. Carlini and D. Wagner, “Towards evaluating the robustness of neural
networks,” in Proc. IEEE Symp. Secur . Privacy, 2017, pp. 39–57.
[24] D. Zügner and S. Günnemann, “Adversarial attacks on graph neural
networks via meta learning,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Learn. Representations ,
2019. [Online]. Available: https://openreview.net/forum?id=Bylnx209YX
[25] A. Bojchevski and S. Günnemann, “Adversarial attacks on node em-
beddings via graph poisoning,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Mach. Learn. , 2019,
pp. 695–704.
[26] N. Carlini and D. Wagner, “Adversarial examples are not easily detected:
Bypassing ten detection methods,” in Proc. ACM Workshop Artif. Intell.
Secur ., 2017, pp. 3–14.
[27] J. Cohen, E. Rosenfeld, and Z. Kolter, “Certiﬁed adversarial robustness
via randomized smoothing,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Mach. Learn. , 2019,
pp. 1310–1320.
[28] M. Cisse, P . Bojanowski, E. Grave, Y . Dauphin, and N. Usunier, “Parseval
networks: Improving robustness to adversarial examples,” in Proc. Int.
Conf. Mach. Learn., 2017, pp. 854–863.
[29] D. Jakubovitz and R. Giryes, “Improving DNN robustness to adversarial
attacks using jacobian regularization,” in Proc. Eur . Conf. Comput. Vis.,
2018, pp. 514–529.
[30] F. Tramèr, A. Kurakin, N. Papernot, I. Goodfellow, D. Boneh, and P .
McDaniel, “Ensemble adversarial training: Attacks and defenses,” in
Proc. Int. Conf. Learn. Representations , 2018. [Online]. Available: https:
//openreview.net/forum?id=rkZvSe-RZ
[31] E. Wong, L. Rice, and J. Z. Kolter, “Fast is better than free: Revisiting
adversarial training,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Learn. Representations , 2020.
[Online]. Available: https://openreview.net/forum?id=BJx040EFvH
[32] Z. Huan, Y . Quanming, and T. Weiwei, “Search to aggregate neighborhood
for graph neural network,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Data Eng. , 2021,
pp. 552–563.
[33] A. Zela, T. Elsken, T. Saikia, Y . Marrakchi, T. Brox, and F. Hutter,
“Understanding and robustifying differentiable architecture search,” in
Proc. Int. Conf. Learn. Representations , 2020. [Online]. Available: https:
//openreview.net/forum?id=H1gDNyrKDS
[34] Z. Wang et al., “Towards transferable targeted adversarial exam-
ples,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. , 2023,
pp. 20534–20543.
[35] B. Xie et al., “Adversarially robust neural architecture search for graph
neural networks,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recog-
nit., 2023, pp. 8143–8152.
[36] B. Li, E. Pan, and Z. Kang, “PC-Conv: Unifying homophily and het-
erophily with two-fold ﬁltering,” in Proc. AAAI Conf. Artif. Intell. , 2024,
pp. 13437–13445.
[37] A. Krizhevsky and G. Hinton, “Learning multiple layers of features from
tiny images,” 2009. [Online]. Available: https://www.cs.utoronto.ca/kriz/
learning-features-2009-TR.pdf
[38] J. Deng, W. Dong, R. Socher, L.-J. Li, K. Li, and L. Fei-Fei, “ImageNet:
A large-scale hierarchical image database,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Conf.
Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit., 2009, pp. 248–255.
[39] P . Sen, G. Namata, M. Bilgic, L. Getoor, B. Galligher, and T. Eliassi-
Rad, “Collective classiﬁcation in network data,” AI Mag., vol. 29, no. 3,
pp. 93–93, 2008.
[40] K. He, X. Zhang, S. Ren, and J. Sun, “Deep residual learning for image
recognition,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. ,
2016, pp. 770–778.
[41] G. Huang, Z. Liu, L. V an Der Maaten, and K. Q. Weinberger, “Densely
connected convolutional networks,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Conf. Comput.
Vis. Pattern Recognit., 2017, pp. 4700–4708.
[42] Y . Xu et al., “PC-DARTS: Partial channel connections for memory-
efﬁcient architecture search,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Learn. Representations ,
2020. [Online]. Available: https://openreview.net/forum?id=BJlS634tPr
[43] X. Chen and C.-J. Hsieh, “Stabilizing differentiable architecture search
via perturbation-based regularization,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Mach. Learn. ,
2020, pp. 1554–1565.
[44] M. Guo, Y . Y ang, R. Xu, Z. Liu, and D. Lin, “When NAS meets robustness:
In search of robust architectures against adversarial attacks,” in Proc.
IEEE/CVF Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit., 2020, pp. 631–640.
Authorized licensed use limited to: SHENZHEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on April 22,2025 at 08:25:23 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2902 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING, VOL. 37, NO. 5, MA Y 2025
[45] M. Defferrard, X. Bresson, and P . V andergheynst, “Convolutional neural
networks on graphs with fast localized spectral ﬁltering,” in Proc. Adv.
Neural Inf. Process. Syst., 2016, pp. 3844–3852.
[46] P . V eliˇckovi´c, G. Cucurull, A. Casanova, A. Romero, P . Liò, and Y . Bengio,
“Graph attention networks,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Learn. Representations ,
2018. [Online]. Available: https://openreview.net/forum?id=rJXMpikCZ
[47] W. Hamilton, Z. Ying, and J. Leskovec, “Inductive representation learn-
ing on large graphs,” in Proc. Adv. Neural Inf. Process. Syst. , 2017,
pp. 1025–1035.
[48] C. Guan et al., “AutoGL: A library for automated graph learning,” in Proc.
Int. Conf. Learn. Representations Workshop , 2021. [Online]. Available:
https://openreview.net/forum?id=0yHwpLeInDn
[49] T. Pang, X. Y ang, Y . Dong, H. Su, and J. Zhu, “Bag of tricks for adversarial
training,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Learn. Representations , 2021. [Online].
Available: https://openreview.net/forum?id=Xb8xvrtB8Ce
[50] L. Bottou, “Large-scale machine learning with stochastic gradient de-
scent,” in Proc: 19th Int. Conf. Comput. Statist. Paris France, Springer,
2010, pp. 177–186.
[51] D. P . Kingma and J. Ba, “Adam: A method for stochastic optimization,”
in Proc. Int. Conf. Learn. Representations , 2015.
[52] L. Rice, E. Wong, and Z. Kolter, “Overﬁtting in adversarially robust deep
learning,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Mach. Learn. , 2020, pp. 8093–8104.
[53] T. DeVries and G. W. Taylor, “Improved regularization of convolutional
neural networks with cutout,” 2017, arXiv: 1708.04552.
[54] A. Paszke et al., “PyTorch: An imperative style, high-performance
deep learning library,” in Proc. Adv. Neural Inf. Process. Syst. , 2019,
pp. 8026–8037.
[55] M. Fey and J. E. Lenssen, “Fast graph representation learning with pytorch
geometric,” 2019, arXiv: 1903.02428.
[56] H. Kim, “Torchattacks: A pytorch repository for adversarial attacks,”
2020, arXiv: 2010.01950.
[57] Y . Li, W. Jin, H. Xu, and J. Tang, “DeepRobust: A pytorch library for
adversarial attacks and defenses,” 2020, arXiv: 2005.06149.
[58] C. Ying, A. Klein, E. Christiansen, E. Real, K. Murphy, and F. Hutter,
“NAS-Bench-101: Towards reproducible neural architecture search,” in
Proc. Int. Conf. Mach. Learn. , 2019, pp. 7105–7114.
[59] X. Dong, L. Liu, K. Musial, and B. Gabrys, “NA TS-Bench: Benchmarking
NAS algorithms for architecture topology and size,” IEEE Trans. Pattern
Anal. Mach. Intell., vol. 44, no. 7, pp. 3634–3646, Jul. 2022.
[60] Z. Guo et al., “Single path one-shot neural architecture search with uniform
sampling,” in Proc. Eur . Conf. Comput. Vis., Springer, 2020, pp. 544–560.
[61] J. Zhang et al., “Attacks which do not kill training make adversarial learn-
ing stronger,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Mach. Learn. , 2020, pp. 11278–11287.
[62] L. Sun et al., “Adversarial attack and defense on graph data: A survey,”
IEEE Trans. Knowl. Data Eng., vol. 35, no. 8, pp. 7693–7711, Aug. 2023.
Yuqi Feng (Graduate Student Member, IEEE) re-
ceived the BE degree in computer science and tech-
nology from Sichuan University, Chengdu, China, in
2022. He is currently working toward the PhD degree
with the College of Computer Science, Sichuan Uni-
versity, Chengdu, China. His current research inter-
ests include neural architecture search and adversarial
attacks.
Yanan Sun(Senior Member, IEEE) received the PhD
degree in computer science from Sichuan University,
Chengdu, China, in 2017. He is currently a profes-
sor with the College of Computer Science, Sichuan
University, Chengdu, China. His research interests
include evolutionary computation, neural networks,
and their applications on neural architecture search.
He lead a team winning the First place on the third
unseen-data neural architecture search challenge in
CVPR2023. Dr. Sun serves as an associate editor for
IEEE Transactions on Evolutionary Computationand
IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems .
Gary G. Y en (Fellow, IEEE) received the PhD de-
gree in electrical and computer engineering from the
University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, USA, in
1992. In 1997, he was with the Structure Control Di-
vision, Air Force Research Laboratory, Albuquerque,
NM, USA. He is currently a regents professor with
the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering,
Oklahoma State University, Stillwater, OK, USA. His
research interests include intelligent control, compu-
tational intelligence, conditional health monitoring,
and signal processing and their industrial/defense
applications.
Kay Chen Tan (Fellow, IEEE) received the BEng
degree (First Class Hons.) and the PhD degree from
the University of Glasgow, U.K., in 1994 and 1997,
respectively. He is currently a chair professor of the
Department of Computing, The Hong Kong Polytech-
nic University. He was the editor-in-chief of IEEE
Transactions on Evolutionary Computation,a n dc u r -
rently serves as an Editorial Board member of 10+
journals. He is currently the vice-president (Publica-
tions) of IEEE Computational Intelligence Society ,
an honorary professor with the University of Not-
tingham, in U.K., and the chief co-editor of Springer Book Series on Machine
Learning: Foundations, Methodologies, and Applications.
Authorized licensed use limited to: SHENZHEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on April 22,2025 at 08:25:23 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 