Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2023
A.3 D ATASET STRUCTURE , D ISTRIBUTION , AND LICENSE
Files are provided in json format to ensure platform-independence and to reduce the dependency on
external libraries (e.g. Python has built-in json-support).
We will publish code that accompanies our dataset on GitHub. The dataset itself will be linked from
GitHub and is hosted on an institutional cloud service. This ensures longtime availability and the
possibility to version the dataset. Dataset and code will be published at the notification date under
GNU GPLv3.
A.4 S TRUCTURE
The dataset consists of 3 folders, one for each dataset evaluated ( cifar10, cifar100,
ImageNet16-120). Each folder contains one json file for each combination of key and measure-
ment. Keys refer to the sort of attack or corruption used (Table 3 lists all keys). Measurements refer
to the collected evaluation type (accuracy, confidence, cm). Clean and adversarial evaluations
are performed on all datasets, while common corruptions are evaluated oncifar10 and cifar100.
Additionally, the dataset contains one metadata file (meta.json).
Table 3: Keys for attacks and corruptions evaluated.
Clean Adversarial Common Corruptions
clean aa_apgd-ce brightness
aa_square contrast
fgsm defocus_blur
pgd elastic_transform
fog
frost
gaussian_noise
glass_blur
impulse_noise
jpeg_compression
motion_blur
pixelate
shot_noise
snow
zoom_blur
Metadata The meta.json file contains information about each architecture in NAS-Bench-201.
This includes, for each architecture identifier, the corresponding string defining the network design (as
per (Dong & Yang, 2020)) as well as the identifier of the corresponding non-isomorphic architecture
from (Dong & Yang, 2020) that we evaluated. The file also contains all ϵ values that we evaluated for
each adversarial attack. An excerpt of this file is shown in Figure 10.
Files All files are named according to "{key}_{measurement}.json". Hence, the path to
all clean accuracies on cifar10 is "./cifar10/clean_accuracy.json". An excerpt of
this file is shown in Figure 11. Each file contains nested dictionaries stating the dataset, evaluation key
and measurement type. For evaluations with multiple measurements, e.g. in the case of adversarial
attacks for multiple ϵ values, the results are concatenated into a list. Files and their possible contents
are described in Table 4.
16