Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2023
et al., 2021). However, there was no attempt so far to evaluate a full search space on robustness,
but rather architectures in the wild. This paper is a first step towards closing this gap. We are
the first to introduce a robustness dataset based on evaluating a complete NAS search space, such
as to allow benchmarking neural architecture search approaches for the robustness of the found
architectures. This will facilitate better streamlined research on neural architecture design choices
and their robustness. We evaluate all 6 466 unique pretrained architectures from the NAS-Bench-201
benchmark (Dong & Yang, 2020) on common adversarial attacks (Goodfellow et al., 2015; Kurakin
et al., 2017; Croce & Hein, 2020) and corruption types (Hendrycks & Dietterich, 2019). We thereby
follow the argumentation in NAS research that employing one common training scheme for the
entire search space will allow for comparability between architectures. Having the combination of
pretrained models and the evaluation results in our dataset at hand, we further provide the evaluation
of common training-free robustness measurements, such as the Frobenius norm of the Jacobian matrix
(Hoffman et al., 2019) and the largest eigenvalue of the Hessian matrix (Zhao et al., 2020), on the full
architecture search space and use these measurements as a method to find the supposedly most robust
architecture. To prove the promise of our dataset to promote research in neural architecture search for
robust models we perform several common NAS algorithms on the clean as well as on the robust
accuracy of different image classification tasks. Additionally, we conduct a first analysis of how
certain architectural design choices affect robustness with the potential of doubling the robustness of
networks with the same number of parameters. This is only possible, since we evaluate the whole
search space of NAS-Bench-201 (Dong & Yang, 2020), enabling us to investigate the effect of small
architectural changes. To our knowledge we are the first paper to introduce a robustness dataset
covering a full (widely used) search space allowing to track the outcome of fine-grained architectural
changes. In summary we make the following contributions:
• We present the first robustness dataset evaluating a complete NAS architectural search space.
• We present different use cases for this dataset; from training-free measurements for robust-
ness to neural architecture search.
• Lastly, our dataset shows that a model’s robustness against corruptions and adversarial at-
tacks is highly sensitive towards the architectural design, and carefully crafting architectures
can substantially improve their robustness.
2 R ELATED WORK
Common Corruptions While neural architectures achieve results in image classification that super-
sede human performance (He et al., 2015), common corruptions such as Gaussian noise or blur can
cause this performance to degrade substantially (Dodge & Karam, 2017). For this reason, Hendrycks
& Dietterich (2019) propose a benchmark that enables researchers to evaluate their network design
on several common corruption types.
Adversarial Attacks Szegedy et al. (2014) showed that image classification networks can be fooled
by crafting image perturbations, so called adversarial attacks, that maximize the networks’ prediction
towards a class different to the image label. Surprisingly, these perturbations can be small enough
such that they are not visible to the human eye. One of the first adversarial attacks, called fast
gradient sign method (FGSM) (Goodfellow et al., 2015), tries to flip the label of an image in a single
perturbation step of limited size. This is achieved by maximizing the loss of the network and requires
access to its gradients. Later gradient-based methods, like projected gradient descent (PGD) (Kurakin
et al., 2017), iteratively perturb the image in multiple gradient steps. To evaluate robustness in a
structured manner, Croce & Hein (2020) propose an ensemble of different attacks, including an
adaptive version of PGD (APGD) (Croce & Hein, 2020) and a blackbox attack called Square Attack
(Andriushchenko et al., 2020) that has no access to network gradients. Croce et al. (2021) conclude
the next step in robustness research by providing an adversarial robustness benchmark, RobustBench,
tracking state-of-the-art models in adversarial robustness.
NAS Neural Architecture Search (NAS) is an optimization problem with the objective to find an
optimal combination of operations in a predefined, constrained search space. Early NAS approaches
differ by their search strategy within the constraint search space. Common NAS strategies are
evolutionary methods (Real et al., 2017; 2019), reinforcement learning (RL) (Zoph & Le, 2017; Li
et al., 2018), random search (Bergstra & Bengio, 2012; Li & Talwalkar, 2019), local search (White
et al., 2021b), and Bayesian optimization (BO) (Kandasamy et al., 2018; Ru et al., 2021; White et al.,
2