Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2023
where ˜x is the adversarial example, x is the input image, y the corresponding label, ϵ the magnitude
of the perturbation, and θ the network parameters. J(θ, x, y) is the loss function used to train the
attacked network. In the case of architectures trained for NAS-Bench-201, this is cross entropy
(CE). Since attacks via FGSM can be evaluated fairly efficiently, we evaluate all architectures
for ϵ ∈ EF GSM = {.1, .5, 1, 2, . . . ,8, 255}/255, so for a total of |EF GSM | = 11 times for each
architecture. We use Foolbox (Rauber et al., 2017) to perform the attacks, and collect (a) accuracy, (b)
average prediction confidences, as well as (c) confusion matrices for each network andϵ combination.
PGD While FGSM perturbs the image in a single step of sizeϵ, PGD (Kurakin et al., 2017) iteratively
perturbs the image via
˜xn+1 = clipϵ,x(˜xn − αsign(∆xJ(θ, ˜xn, ˜y))), ˜x0 = x, (2)
where ˜y is the least likely predicted class of the network, and clipϵ,x(·) is a function clipping
to range [x − ϵ, x + ϵ]. Due to its iterative nature, PGD is more efficient in finding adversarial
examples, but requires more computation time. Therefore, we find it sufficient to evaluate PGD for
ϵ ∈ EP GD = {.1, .5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 8}/255, so for a total of |EP GD| = 7 times for each architecture.
As for FGSM, we use Foolbox (Rauber et al., 2017) to perform the attacks using their L∞ PGD
implementation and keep the default settings, which are α = 0.01/0.3 for 40 attack iterations. We
collect (a) accuracy, (b) average prediction confidences, and (c) confusion matrices for each network
and ϵ combination.
APGD AutoAttack (Croce & Hein, 2020) offers an adaptive version of PGD that reduces its step size
over time without the need for hyperparameters. We perform this attack using theL∞ implementation
provided by (Croce & Hein, 2020) on CE and choose EAP GD = EP GD. We kept the default number
of attack iterations that is 100. We collect (a) accuracy, (b) average prediction confidences, and (c)
confusion matrices for each network and ϵ combination.
Square Attack In contrast to the before-mentioned attacks, Square Attack is a blackbox attack that
has no access to the networks’ gradients. It solves the following optimization problem using random
search:
min
˜x
{fy,θ(˜x) − maxk̸=yfk,θ(˜x)}, s.t. ∥˜x − x∥p ≤ ϵ, (3)
where fk,θ(·) are the network predictions for class k given an image. We perform this attack using
the L∞ implementation provided by (Croce & Hein, 2020) and choose ESquare = EP GD. We kept
the default number of search iterations at 5 000. We collect (a) accuracy, (b) average prediction
confidences, and (c) confusion matrices for each network and ϵ combination.
Summary Figure 2 shows aggregated evaluation results on the before-mentioned attacks on
CIFAR-10 w.r.t. accuracy. Growing gaps between mean and max accuracies indicate that the ar-
chitecture has an impact on robust performances. Figure 3 depicts the correlation of ranking all
architectures based on different attack scenarios. While there is larger correlation within the same
adversarial attack and different values ofϵ, there seem to be architectural distinctions for susceptibility
to different attacks.
3.3 R OBUSTNESS TO COMMON CORRUPTIONS
To evaluate all unique NAS-Bench-201 Dong & Yang (2020) architectures on common corruptions,
we evaluate them on the benchmark data provided by (Hendrycks & Dietterich, 2019). Two datasets
are available: CIFAR10-C, which is a corrupted version of CIFAR-10 and CIFAR-100-C, which
is a corrupted version of CIFAR-100. Both datasets are perturbed with a total of 15 corruptions
at 5 severity levels (see Figure 18 in the Appendix for an example). The training procedure of
NAS-Bench-201 only augments the training data with random flipping and random cropping. Hence,
no influence should be expected of the training augmentation pipeline on the performance of the
networks to those corruptions. We evaluate each of the 15 · 5 = 75 datasets individually for each
network and collect (a) accuracy, (b) average prediction confidences, and (c) confusion matrices.
Summary Figure 4 depicts mean accuracies for different corruptions at increasing severity levels.
Similar to Figure 2, a growing gap between mean and max accuracies for most of the corruptions can
be observed, which indicates towards architectural influences on robustness to common corruptions.
Figure 5 depicts the ranking correlation for all architectures between clean and corrupted accuracies.
Ranking architectures based on accuracy on different kinds of corruption is mostly uncorrelated. This
indicates a high diversity of sensitivity to different kinds of corruption based on architectural design.
5