Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2023
the cell, hence, their number ranges in [0, 54]. Since these are multipliers for the parameter count of
the whole network, we coin these cell kernel parameters. Overall, we can see that the cell kernel
parameter count matters in terms of robustness, hence, that networks with large parameter counts are
more robust in general. We can also see that the number of cell kernel parameters are more essential
for robustness against common corruptions, where the correlation between clean and corruption
accuracy is more linear. Also in terms of adversarial robustness, there seems to be a large magnitude
of possible improvements that can be gained by optimizing architecture design.
Limited Cell Parameter Count To further investigate the magnitude of possible improvements via
architectural design optimization, we look into the scenario of limited cell parameter count.
0 10 20 30 40 50
Cell Kernel Parameters
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
0.45Mean Adversarial Accuracy
Figure 28: Mean robust accuracy over all attacks as described in subsection 3.2 on CIFAR-10 by
kernel parameters ∈ [0, 54] for all unique architectures in NAS-Bench-201. Orange scatter points
depict all architectures with kernel parameter count18, hence, architectures with exactly2 times 3 × 3
convolutions. Although having exactly the same parameter count, the mean adversarial robustness of
these networks ranges in [0.21, 0.40].
In Figure 28, we depict all unique architectures in NAS-Bench-201 by their mean adversarial
robustness and cell kernel parameter count. Networks with parameter count 18 (408 instances in
total) are highlighted in orange. As we can see, there is a large range of mean adversarial accuracies
[0.21, 0.4] for the parameter count 18 showing the potential of doubling the robustness of a network
with the same parameter count by carefully crafting its topology. In Figure 29 we show the top-
20 performing architectures (color-coded, one operation for each edge) in the mentioned scenario
of a parameter count of 18, according to ( top) mean adversarial and ( bottom) mean corruption
accuracy. It is interesting to see that in both cases, there are (almost) no convolutions on edges 2 and
4, and additionally no dropping or skipping of edge 1. In the case of edge 4, it seems that a single
convolution layer connecting input and output of the cell increases sensitivity of the network. Hence,
most of the top-20 robust architectures stack convolutions (via edge 1, followed by either edge 3
or 5), from which we hypothesize that stacking convolutions operations might improve robustness
when designing architectures. At the same time, skipping input to output via edge 4 seems not to
affect robustness negatively, as long as the input feature map is combined with stacked convolutions.
Important to note here is that this is a first observation, which can be made by using our provided
dataset. This observation functions as a motivation for how this dataset can be used to analyze
robustness in combination with architecture design.
31